# 10479_2020_Article_3912

> **源文件**: 10479_2020_Article_3912.pdf
> **页数**: 38

---

## 第 1 页

Vol.:(0123456789)
Annals of Operations Research (2022) 319:965–1002
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10479-020-03912-1
1 3
S.I. : DESIGN AND MANAGEMENT OF HUMANITARIAN SUPPLY
CHAINS
Supply chain disruptions and resilience: a major review
and future research agenda
K. Katsaliaki1 · P. Galetsi1 · S. Kumar2
Accepted: 17 December 2020 / Published online: 8 January 2021
© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC part of Springer Nature 2021
Abstract
Our study examines the literature that has been published in important journals on supply
chain disruptions, a topic that has emerged the last 20 years, with an emphasis in the latest
developments in the field. Based on a review process important studies have been identified
and analyzed. The content analysis of these studies synthesized existing information about
the types of disruptions, their impact on supply chains, resilience methods in supply chain
design and recovery strategies proposed by the studies supported by cost–benefit analy-
sis. Our review also examines the most popular modeling approaches on the topic with
indicative examples and the IT tools that enhance resilience and reduce disruption risks.
Finally, a detailed future research agenda is formed about SC disruptions, which identifies
the research gaps yet to be addressed. The aim of this study is to amalgamate knowledge
on supply chain disruptions which constitutes an important and timely as the frequency and
impact of disruptions increase. The study summarizes and builds upon the knowledge of
other well-cited reviews and surveys in this research area.
Keywords  Supply chain · Disruptions · Review · Resilience · Ripple effect · Modeling
techniques · IT tools
*	 S. Kumar
skumar@stthomas.edu
K. Katsaliaki
k.katsaliaki@ihu.edu.gr
P. Galetsi
p.galetsi@ihu.edu.gr
1
School of Humanities, Social Sciences and Economics, International Hellenic University, 14th km
Thessaloniki‑N.Moudania, 57001 Thessaloniki, Greece
2
Opus College of Business, University of St. Thomas Minneapolis Campus, 1000 LaSalle Avenue,
Schulze Hall 435, Minneapolis, MN 55403, USA

---

## 第 2 页

966
Annals of Operations Research (2022) 319:965–1002
1 3
1  Introduction
Driven by the globalization of markets and the competitive business environment, lean
supply chain management (SCM) practices have become very popular (Blackhurst et al.
2005) calling for continuous flow processing with low inventory volumes, levelled and
just-in-time production and accurate scheduling of transport for cross-docking opera-
tions leading to more cost-effective and responsive supply chains (SCs). Furthermore,
the pressure for cost reductions has led to the outsourcing and offshoring of many man-
ufacturing and R&D activities, especially the sourcing from low-cost countries. These
trends place enormous pressure for undistracted operations and stable environments,
but also increase their vulnerability to disruptions which consequently increases the
operational and financial impact of supply chain (SC) disruptions (Zsidisin et al. 2005).
Given that more than 56% of companies globally suffer a SC disruption annually, firms
have started taking SC disruptions more seriously (BCI-Business Continuity Institute
2019). Therefore, the need for designing resilient SCs and preparing contingency plans
is of paramount importance.
Supply chain disruptions may occur due to climate change or human factors. Based on
the site of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), which keeps a
record regarding the number of disasters and their associated costs in the U.S, there have
been 212 disasters since 1980 resulting in approximately $1.2 trillion in damage. A typical
year in the 1980s experienced, on average, 2.7 such disasters in the U.S, 4.6 in the 1990s,
5.4 in the 2000s, and 10.5 in the 2010s. The occurrence of costly disasters has mounted.
The same phenomenon is observed globally based on the OFDA/CRED International Dis-
aster Database with less than 200 disasters per year in the 1980s and over 300 in the 2010s.
Natural disasters like the Thailand flood and Japan’s earthquake and tsunami in 2011
immediately affected the SCs of several products from firms such as Apple, Toshiba, Gen-
eral Motors, Nissan Motor and Toyota Motor causing negative results in these companies’
reputations and earnings (Chongvilaivan 2011). Statistics show that about 40–60% of small
businesses never reopen following a disaster (FEMA 2015).
On the other hand, recent examples of human factor disruptions include the tariffs
imposed on billions of products for US importers in 2018–19, specifically to steel and
aluminum, which led to import delays due to an inability of companies to adjust their
current customs clearance programs and absorb the extra cost. This left a negative
impact on the relations of the US with China, whose companies have been affected the
most. Moreover, the wake of Brexit at the beginning of 2020 increases production fail-
ure risks to just-in-time auto manufacturers and others with similar operations (Banker
2019). The civil war in Syria has created humanitarian logistics problems with refugees’
flows in Turkey and EU which based on the situation had to change supply chain strate-
gies from serving populations on the move to serving dispersed but static groups of
people, by supplying refugee camps, etc. (Dubey et al. 2019a, b, c). Recently, the deadly
coronavirus outbreak in a major industrial and transport hub of central China has trig-
gered lockdowns in Chinese (and many other) cities and factories which have severely
restricted production and transport routes globally (Araz et al. 2020).
The issue of SC disruptions has been greatly emphasized in the literature. It is a
topic that increasingly challenges the SC of products and their focal firms, as SCs have
become very complex and interdependent and disruptions create a snowball effect with
serious consequences to all related SC echelons. This propagation, the ripple effect as
is denoted in the literature (Ivanov et al. 2014a, b) amplifies the impact of disruptions.

---

## 第 3 页

967
Annals of Operations Research (2022) 319:965–1002
1 3
Although companies have high awareness about SC risks, more than 80% have been
concerned about SC resilience (Marchese and Paramasivam 2013; Wright 2013), about
60% believe they have not yet developed and applied effective SC risk management prac-
tices (Sáenz and Revilla 2014). Therefore, managing risk in SCs is an important topic of
supply chain management and has been the focus of research through reviews (Ho et al.
2015; Kleindorfer and Saad 2005), case studies (Ferreira et al. 2018) and an analysis of
management models (Tomlin 2006). Related studies have exhibited a rich academic struc-
ture that encourages research in the field by identifying SC risks’ types, ways to detect and
assess them and apply the right methods to react to them by linking theory with strategy
and managerial practices (Nakano and Lau 2020).
However, there is evidence of a shift away from traditional risk management thinking
as a reactive tactic to disruptions and towards more proactive strategies such as building
SC resilience which increases the chances of achieving business continuity in turbulent
cases (Christopher and Peck 2004). Building resilience is a capability that enables the SC
to anticipate, adapt and promptly respond to unpredictable events (Blackhurst et al. 2005),
and therefore greatly appeals to the firms. However, its effective application requires the
development of certain operational capabilities aligned across the SC partners (Ali et al.
2017).
Supply chain disruptions and resilience have developed to become a well-defined
research area, exhibiting a rich academic output. Indicative are the special issues in pres-
tigious journals such as in the Supply Chain Management: An International Journal in
2019 on “New Supply Chain Models: Disruptive Supply Chain Strategies for 2030” (Wild-
ing and Wagner 2019) and in the International Journal of Production Research (IJPR) in
2016 on “supply chain dynamics, control and disruption management” (Ivanov et  al.
2016a, b). Among the publications, numerous theoretical developments as well as review
studies can be found exploring certain aspects of SC disruptions. There are also a few sci-
entometric studies investigating mitigation methods (Bier et al. 2019), methods for build-
ing resilience (Centobelli et al. 2019; Hosseini et al. 2019a) and the connection between
SC risk and artificial intelligence (Baryannis et al. 2019a, b).
From an academic standpoint, it is significant to classify and synthesize the output of
research in a specific field, so that those interested can follow the field’s developments and
trends (Merigó and Yang 2017). Bibliometrics is one method of conducting such a clas-
sification, which guides academics toward a discipline’s most influential studies (Gaviria-
Marin et al. 2019; Godin 2006). On the other hand, the synthesis of knowledge can be
performed through review and content analysis methods for classifying research and pre-
senting a more analytical view of the developments of the field.
Our study examines the literature published in important journals on SC disruptions and
resilience, a topic that has emerged the last 20 years, with an emphasis in the latest devel-
opments in the field.
The methodology is comprised of a profiling of our article pool, which is followed by a
thorough review of advances in the field, completed by combining knowledge and provid-
ing information about supply chain disruptions, their impact and remedies, with a special
focus on the ripple effect reduction, through the analysis of state of the art literature and
comparisons. Finally, a review of the related technology advances draws a picture for the
future of supply chain management against disruptions and provides a list of research ideas
to gain a further understanding of the phenomenon, helping to better develop the field and
prepare firms. Through this process managerial insights are offered for decision makers in
the industry. Therefore, the manuscript aims to address: (1) how the literature has helped
to advance theoretical debates and influence decision-making and (2) how the future is

---

## 第 4 页

968
Annals of Operations Research (2022) 319:965–1002
1 3
shaped, what the research gaps are that published papers have not yet addressed and con-
stitute the future research agenda on SC disruptions. The study’s contribution is to comple-
ment prior research and provide a broad picture of SC disruptions and remedies at a time
when the existing literature has matured, the interest of firms on the topic has mounted,
especially due to the COVID19 pandemic lockdowns, and there are new ways emerging
that require further investigation.
The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. The second section discusses the
study’s methodology. The third section presents the profile of research on SC disruptions
with an emphasis on the most influential papers. The findings from the content analysis
of the related papers are described in the fourth section under eight subsections, focusing
on the types of disruptive events, SC propagation-ripple effect, the impact of SC disrup-
tions, resilience methods and recovery strategies, modeling approaches for SC disruptions,
cost–benefit analysis of SC resilience, popular IT tools for resilience and response to dis-
ruptions and finishing with a future research agenda. The last section on discussion pre-
sents the research and managerial implications of this study.
2  Methodology
The paper’s main research methodology follows a step by step review approach by using
explicit methods and adopts a bibliometric technique to identify research streams in the
analyzed literature and also a content analysis method to provide a description of research
evidence.
The data collection process of the relevant articles on SC disruptions is described below.
The Web of Science (WoS) database was queried for articles and reviews written in Eng-
lish that were published between the years of t and 2019 inclusive and contain in their title
the terms “supply chain*” AND in the topic (title, abstract or keywords) the term disrupt*
(*with its derivatives). The search identified 951 studies, which were analyzed based on
their profile. Figure 1 presents a detailed schema of the methodology which is divided in
three stages: preparation of dataset, profiling and content analysis and paper writing. The
tools of the WoS database were utilized to derive profiling results such as the distribution
of papers per year, the journals and affiliations with the most published papers and the
citation report. The content analysis was completed with the help of EndNote capabilities
Fig. 1   Methodology schema

*（本页包含 1 张图片，请参阅原PDF）*

---

## 第 5 页

969
Annals of Operations Research (2022) 319:965–1002
1 3
and two of the authors reading a selection of the articles. The criteria for an article’s par-
ticipation in the content analysis was based on the thematic area under investigation. A
positive inclination was towards papers belonging to the top 10 journals that publish rel-
evant subjects or towards highly cited papers (based on total citation or average citations
per year). Around 250 papers were read in full and a number of them sketched the content
of the specific categories. The content analysis categories include the types of disruptions
(hierarchized by reason and frequency of occurrence), the impact that SC disruptions cre-
ate (e.g. ripple-snowball effect), resilience, response and recovery methods, cost–benefit
analysis of responses to disruptions, the most popular modeling approaches for applying
resilience and mitigation strategies (topped with indicative examples and a special focus on
the ripple effect), the IT tools and technological trends that enhance resilience and response
to disruptions and research gaps that require further investigation. For this last section of
future research, we also included ideas from 5 studies published in 2020 which cover issues
related to the enormous SC disruption caused by the COVID19 pandemic.
3  Profiling research on SC disruptions
A look into the yearly distribution of the 951 related articles shows that the first papers
on the topic were published as recently as in 2004, followed by continuous interest after
that year. After 2015 there is a dramatic annual increase in the number of papers in the
subject by around 30% from year to year. Around 30% of these papers are published in the
following 10 journals: International Journal of Production Research, International Journal
of Production Economics, Supply Chain Management: An International Journal, Interna-
tional Journal of Logistics Management, International Journal of Physical Distribution and
Logistics Management, Omega: International Journal of Management Science, Transpor-
tation Research Part E Logistics and Transportation Review, European Journal of Opera-
tional Research, Computers & Industrial Engineering, and Annals of Operations Research.
A lot of the work in the subject is conducted in the Russian Academy of Sciences, the Uni-
versity of Tehran and the Berlin School of Economics and Law.
3.1  Most influential papers and their contribution
If we assume that citation reports indicate the most read and referenced papers in the field,
the most popular paper in the subject as of March 2020, is a framework for classifying SC
risk management literature (Tang 2006), followed by one discussing SC disruptions in par-
ticular (Kleindorfer and Saad 2005).
Overall, the analysis of the 10 most important papers’ contribution (Appendix Table 3)
indicate that in their great majority are a) review papers about: (1) managing SC risks
[either through a conceptual framework (Tang 2006) or as a textbook style (Chopra and
Sodhi 2004) or a citation-review analysis (Tang and Musa 2011)], (2) managing SC dis-
ruptions (Kleindorfer and Saad 2005), (3) explaining SC resilience (Ponomarov and Hol-
comb 2009) and (b) survey papers discussing about: (1) the different levels of severity of
SC disruptions through interviews (Craighead et al. 2007), (2) the impact of disruptions’
announcements to the firms’ stock price performance (Hendricks and Singhal 2005), (3)
the perceptions of SC professionals of how SC agility is achieved (Braunscheidel and
Suresh 2009) and (4) of their approaches to risk in global SCs (Manuj and Mentzer 2008).
There is also one paper in this list which presents an inventory optimization model to

---

## 第 6 页

970
Annals of Operations Research (2022) 319:965–1002
1 3
assess sourcing strategies under disruptions (Tomlin 2006). Almost all of these papers have
been published before 2010 (only one in 2011). Therefore, apart from their important con-
tent, the time that have been available is also a crucial parameter of their popularity.
A further investigation on trending WoS papers* (10 more recent papers with increasing
citations - Appendix Table 4) revealed a focus on the digitalization of SCs and its impact on
SC risk control, such as the effect of digital technology and Industry 4.0 on SC disruptions
(Ivanov et al. 2019), the effect of the use of blockchain (Saberi et al. 2019) and employees’
perceptions in using it (Queiroz and Wamba 2019). Altogether these 10 studies constitute a
collection of (1) reviews about quantitative methods for modelling SC disruptions and aid-
ing decision-making (Dolgui et al. 2018; Heckmann et al. 2015; Ho et al. 2015; Hosseini
et al. 2019a; Snyder et al. 2016)], (2) conceptual frameworks of certain approaches on the
subject (Ivanov and Dolgui 2019) and (3) surveys of professionals’ knowledge on SC dis-
ruptions and adoption of mitigation tactics (Queiroz and Wamba 2019; Sodhi et al. 2012).
4  Content analysis results
In this section, a review of the selected studies is presented. The review is organized under
the following areas: types and reasons of disruptions, the ripple effect, impact analysis of
SC disruptions, resilience-response-recovery strategies to disruptions, popular quantitative
approaches for the analysis of SC disruptions, cost–benefit analysis of resilience Vs dis-
ruptions, IT tools for enhanced resilience and research gaps for future research directions.
All the subsections’ information is generated through a content analysis of the important
papers of our dataset that is enhanced with other external sources when necessary. Many
sections are supported by tables that provide an account of the reported analysis.
4.1  Types of disruptive events
There is a vast literature which names and analyses the reasons for disruptions in SCs.
Selectively, some of the most relevant studies are the following: (Baryannis et al. 2019a,
b; Chopra and Sodhi 2014; Christopher and Peck 2004; Dolgui et al. 2018; Ivanov 2017;
Ivanov et al. 2014a, b; Rao and Goldsby 2009; Tang and Tomlin 2008; Thun and Hoenig
2011; Vilko and Hallikas 2012; Zsidisin et al. 2016) which reveal the main reasons for the
disruptions’ occurrence. There are also a number of annual surveys on SC disruptions and
resilience which are triggered by the Business Continuity Institute (BCI-Business Continu-
ity Institute 2019) and other older surveys from Hendricks and Singhal (2005, Hendricks
et al. (2009).
The literature provides several ways of grouping the reasons for disruptions/glitches:
(1)	 Based on the SC echelons are clustered under (a) production, (b) supply and (c) trans-
portation disruptions (Ivanov et al. 2017);
(2)	 Based on the reason that caused the disruption, form 9 groups: (a) disasters (e.g.
natural disasters, terrorism, war, etc.), (b) delays (e.g. inflexibility of supply source),
(c) systems (e.g. information infrastructure breakdown), (d) forecast (e.g. inaccurate
forecast, bullwhip effect, etc.), (d) intellectual property (e.g. vertical integration), (e)
procurement (e.g. exchange rate risk), (f) receivables (e.g. number of customers), (g)
inventory (e.g. inventory holding cost, demand and supply uncertainty, etc.) and (h)
capacity (e.g. cost of capacity) (Chopra and Sodhi 2014);

---

## 第 7 页

971
Annals of Operations Research (2022) 319:965–1002
1 3
(3)	 Based on their frequency of occurrence, SC risks that occur regularly are: supply risks,
process risks, demand risks, intellectual property risks, behavioral risks, and political/
social risks (Tang and Tomlin 2008);
(4)	 Based on their nature and their source are classified under 5 categories: (a) process risk,
(b) control risk, (c) demand risk, (d) supply risk and (e) environmental risk (Christo-
pher and Peck 2004);
(5)	 Based on who they affect, from broad to specific, disruptions are: (a) external to the
SC network and are termed environmental, (b) internal to the SC network but exter-
nal to the focal firm, called network or industry risks (c) internal to the firm, called
organizational disruptions, (d) problem-specific and (e) decision-maker specific (Rao
and Goldsby 2009).
Moreover, disruptive events are characterized by their type, intensity, duration (Dolgui
et al. 2019), source and impact. Below we provide examples from the literature based on these
characterizations.
The disruptive events may have an individual impact (e.g. affect only one supplier, e.g.
equipment breakdown, fire etc.), a local impact for suppliers in a geographic area (e.g. labor
strike triggered by new worker’s legislation of a State, etc.) or a global impact that affects all
suppliers or SC echelons simultaneously. Such global events may include an economic crisis,
a widespread labor strike in a transportation sector, etc. Suppliers may suffer all three types
(individual, local, global) of disruption risks (Sawik 2014).
Natural disasters and catastrophic events are considered to have low probability, but are
high impact events with significant consequences to the SC network. On the other hand, high
probability and moderate impact disruptions are: unanticipated demand, rush orders, short-
age in supply, company buyouts, delivery coordination and sourcing constraints (Scheibe and
Blackhurst 2018). 589 professionals who participated in a survey in 2011 indicated that deliv-
ery chain disruptions were higher in their organizations than most other risks, but with less
than average impact (Thun and Hoenig 2011). Aligned with the latter, the results of a Finish
survey identified time delays (as opposed to financial and quality risks) as the most serious in
terms of likelihood of occurrence (Vilko and Hallikas 2012). Earlier, Hendricks and Singhal
(2003) reported that of the 14 primary SC disruption categories that were identified, parts
shortages was by far the most frequent reported cause, and delivery disruptions was one of
the leading causes of parts shortages. Another survey showed that infrastructural events are
the cause of more than half of the disruptions (Zsidisin et al. 2016). The latest reports show
that SC disruptions, such as cyber-attack, data breach and loss of talent/skills have become
more evident since 2014. Consistently high rated causes of disruption in the 2010s include
unplanned IT and telecommunication outages, as well as adverse weather, transport network
disruption and outsourcer failure which have rarely dropped from the top five causes (BCI-
Business Continuity Institute 2019).
Synthesizing the analysis of the individual papers referring to the types of disruptions, and
survey papers and reports that have estimated their frequency of occurrence, in Table 1 we
provide a summary of disruptive event categories, hierarchized by frequency of occurrence,
from low to high. We also provide indicative references from our review database which refer
to the specific category’s events.

---

## 第 8 页

972
Annals of Operations Research (2022) 319:965–1002
1 3
Table 1   Reasons for supply chain disruptions from low to high frequency of occurrence
Categories
Indicative Ref.
Catastrophic events/Macro level risks
Gunessee et al. (2018), Ivanov (2020a), Sheffi (2001)
Natural disasters (e.g. earthquake, flood, strong
wing, fire, hurricanes, tsunami)
International terror attacks (e.g. 2005 London or
2004 Madrid terror attacks)
Political instability, mass killing, war, civil unrest or
other sociopolitical crises, economic crisis
Diseases or epidemics (e.g. SARS, Foot and Mouth
Disease)
Environmental incident (e.g. pollution, waste man-
agement)
Legal, regulatory, labor, financial and bureaucratic
events
Dwivedi et al. (2018), Elzarka (2013), Griffith et al.
(2019)
New laws, rules or regulations (e.g. new tariff rates)
Political factors and administrative barriers for the
set-up or operation of supply chains (e.g. authori-
zation from governments for oil extraction)
Currency exchange rate volatility
Human resource related events (e.g. Loss of talent/
skills, illness, health & safety incidents)
Business ethics incidents (e.g. human rights, corrup-
tion, Intellectual Property violation)
Lack of credit, insolvency in the SC
Demand-side events
Baghalian et al. (2013), Lee et al. (1997), Yang and
Fan (2016)
Unanticipated or highly volatile customer demand,
rush orders
Insufficient or distorted information from customers
about orders or demand quantities, delivery, coor-
dination and sourcing constraints (bullwhip effect)
Supply-side events
Atadeniz and Sridharan (2019), Ni et al. (2016),
Sarkar and Kumar (2015)
Supplier/Outsourcer failure (e.g. bankruptcy, com-
pany buyouts, deliberate sabotage)
Supplier product quality problems (e.g. product
recall, rejected parts)
Sourcing constraints (dependability, energy – natural
resources scarcity, insufficient supplier capacity)
Logistics–Transportation events
Dupont et al. (2018), Fan et al. (2017) Maiyar and
Thakkar (2019)
Poor logistics performance of suppliers (delivery
delay, order fill capacity, parts misplaced in the
plant, poor delivery coordination)
Poor logistics performance of logistics service pro-
viders (LSP) (scheduling errors, mislabeled parts,
non-optimal transport route selection)
Transport network disruption (caused by traffic,
weather, customs delays, demonstrations)
Equipment failures (truck, railroad, ship, port cargo-
handling, and rail yard)
Customs clearance, permit, and inspection delays at
borders

---

## 第 9 页

973
Annals of Operations Research (2022) 319:965–1002
1 3
4.2  Supply chain propagation and the ripple effect
Given the geographical diversification, the number of tiers and the nature of product fail-
ure in an echelon of the SC may not only be a local problem but a far-reaching one which
affects many echelons of the SC, but most importantly the end-customer. Perturbations
originating in a localized point have the potential to be passed onto subsequent tiers of a
SC with possible amplification effects (Wu et al. 2007).
The most-known such SC amplification effect is the bullwhip effect, which is caused by
changes in customer demand that can propagate through the SC, amplifying in magnitude
as the change passes to adjacent tiers (Lee et al. 1997). However, the bullwhip effect only
describes one type of demand-side disruption which is caused by order batching, promo-
tions, shortage gaming and mainly from a lack of coordination among the SC tiers as well
as the lack of information sharing and transparency. This is a problem that has been cured
in recent years with the use of enterprise resource planning (ERP) software, cloud services
and other online sharing means.
On the other hand, the amplification effect which is caused by any type of disruption in
the SCs is called the ripple effect (Ivanov et al. 2014a, b; Liberatore et al. 2012). The ripple
effect describes the disruption propagation in the SC, the resulting SC structural dynamics
and the performance impact of this propagation (Sokolov et al. 2016). Disruptions may
occur upstream from interruptions in the supply-side (supplier/production failure, product
quality problems, resource constraints) or downstream originated from demand-side and
legal, regulatory and financial unexpected changes in the markets. An upstream example is
the case of a supplier that has produced some components with harmful properties for the
environment, which are supplied to the next upstream tier and further to tier-one, where the
component should be suspended and recalled, resulting in delays for the whole SC of the
final product (Levner and Ptuskin 2018).
The ripple effect describes the SC amplification and propagation effects of unpleas-
ant events in broader terms and its consequences which may be much more severe than
these of the bullwhip effect (Ivanov et al. 2017). The disruption frequency is usually lower,
but the performance impact is higher than this of the bullwhip effect (Dolgui et al. 2018).
The ripple effect has also been regarded with the snowball effect (Swierczek 2016) and
domino effect (Khakzad 2015), which have similar definitions. However, the term ripple
effect has dominated the literature and in many papers has been related with low-frequency
Table 1   (continued)
Categories
Indicative Ref.
Production-Infrastructural events
Ghadge et al. (2019), Khakzad (2015), Yang et al.
(2017)
Loss of own production capacity due to technical
reasons (e.g. equipment breakdown, IT infrastruc-
ture failure, machine deterioration)
Unplanned IT or telecommunications outage
Downtime or loss of own production capacity due to
local disruptions (e.g. labor strike, fire, explosion,
industrial accidents, gas leakage)
Cyber-attack and data breach

---

## 第 10 页

974
Annals of Operations Research (2022) 319:965–1002
1 3
high-consequence chains of accidents (Ivanov et al. 2017). Often, the ripple effect has a
tremendous impact on the whole supply chain’s performance, its ability to deliver to the
end-customer and ultimately to the financial survival of its network of companies (Ivanov
et al. 2014a, b; Kamalahmadi and Mellat-Parast 2016).
4.3  The impact of SC disruptions
Companies find it difficult to measure the effects of supply-chain disruptions and empiri-
cal evidence remains limited (Wagner and Neshat 2012). However, there are a few surveys
and case studies that have attempted to shed some light and quantify the impact of disrup-
tions. Additionally, there is a list of notable large scale disruptive events and their conse-
quences (Dolgui et al. 2018) which are often used in the literature as outstanding exam-
ples. Indicative is the plant fire (infrastructural event) of Philips microchip in 2000 in New
Mexico which caused a shortage of chips in the market. The undelivered supplies resulted
in $400 million lost sales for the cellphone producer Ericsson. Similarly, in 2011 the flood
in Thailand and the earthquake-tsunami in Japan (catastrophic event), where many compo-
nent manufacturers are concentrated, resulted in huge losses for these companies. This also
affected the reputation, earnings and shareholder returns of several international industries
such as Apple, Toshiba, General Motors, etc., as companies are increasingly dependent on
the supply chains’ business continuity (Chongvilaivan 2011). In 2016, a contact dispute
(legal event) between Volkswagen and two of its parts suppliers caused a production halt in
6 of the carmaker’s German plants. Around 28,000 workers were laid off or made part-time
(Dolgui et al. 2018).
Therefore, taking also into account the ripple effect, it is understood that disruptions
cause many negative consequences to the entire SC and the individual firms involved. The
relevant literature analyses a number of these consequences. Also, the accumulated knowl-
edge from surveys of the last decade show that loss of productivity is the number one con-
sequence followed by increased working cost, impaired service, customer complaints, loss
of revenue and damage to brand reputation (BCI-Business Continuity Institute 2019).
In broad terms, the effect of SC disruptions may include a sales decrease and cost
increase (Ponomarov and Holcomb 2009), from which many companies never recover
(Wagner and Neshat 2012).
Sales decreases occur due to failure to meet end-customer demand as a result of product
unavailability, partially fulfilled orders in terms of quantity and late deliveries. These lead
to customer complaints, damaged image and brand reputation and loss of customers. The
financial consequences then follow with lower sales, loss of revenues and reduced market
share.
On the other hand, higher costs may occur (a) due to the use of alternative transporta-
tion means for product deliveries, and higher administrative costs for dealing with back-
orders, (b) due to premium supplier contacts for ensuring delivery of the limited resources
from alternative geographical areas and firms, (c) due to production rescheduling as a con-
sequence of stockouts of certain resources, or worse (d) due to production shutdowns (e.g.
fire) and hampered productivity (e.g. labor strike, slack times in manufacturing) and lower
assets and capacity utilization (Jabbarzadeh et al. 2018). Extra costs may incur also e) due
to penalties for breaching contracts and failure to meet legal or regulatory requirements
(Wagner and Neshat 2012). Overall the decreasing sales and increasing costs ultimately
lead to loss of profitability and a decrease in the company’s value (Ivanov 2017). Table 2
presents this degradation process.

---

## 第 11 页

975
Annals of Operations Research (2022) 319:965–1002
1 3
Table 2   SC disruptions impact
Impact
Categories
Outcome
Operations
Marketing
Finance
Sales decrease
Failure to meet end-customer demand as a
result of product unavailability
Customer complaints
Lower sales
Profit Loss reduced stock price
Partially fulfilled orders in terms of quantity Damaged image and brand reputation
Loss of revenues
Late deliveries
Loss of customers
Reduced market share
Reduced stock price
Logistics
Supplier contracts
Production
Costs increase
Use of alternative transportation means for
product deliveries
Higher administrative costs for dealing with
backorders
Premium supplier contacts for ensuring
delivery of the limited resources from
alternative geographical areas and firms
Penalties for breaching contracts and failure
to meet legal or regulatory requirements
Production rescheduling
because of stockouts of certain
resources
Production shutdowns (e.g. fire)
Hampered productivity (e.g.
slack times)
Lower assets and capacity
utilization

---

## 第 12 页

976
Annals of Operations Research (2022) 319:965–1002
1 3
Empirical research has shown that SC disruptions cause on average of a 107% drop in
profitability (operating income), bring about 7% lower sales growth and an 11% growth
in costs (Hendricks and Singhal 2005).
Poor firm performance is one of the most acknowledged effects of disruptions, but
its negative impact is not consistent across all types of risks (Wagner and Bode 2008).
Empirical research has shown that if recovery is possible, it takes up to 50 trading days
(e.g. restart production) (Knight and Pretty 1996) and lower performance is observed for
a period of two years after disruptions (Hendricks and Singhal 2005). The non-recover-
ers suffer a net negative cumulative impact of almost 15% up to one year after the catas-
trophe. Moreover, the more frequent the occurrence of a disruption within a focal manu-
facturing firm, the more likely it is that plant performance, relative to its competitors,
will diminish. Consequently the higher the frequency of supply disruptions, the lower
the plant performance (Brandon-Jones et al. 2015).
Another major impact that has been extensively studied is the financial impact of
disruptions. Empirical findings indicate that financial markets react more dramatically
to catastrophic and restrictive regulatory events, factors that usually cannot be easily
controlled or avoided by firms, as compared to supply-side reasons, where some of them
may be controlled or mitigated by firms through process improvement and early identifi-
cation (Zsidisin et al. 2005).
At first sight, these findings indicate that managers should prioritize actions for con-
tingency plans and the mitigation of catastrophic and regulatory-related disruptions, as
these seem to have the highest financial impact. Nevertheless, apart from the severity of
events, another factor that managers should consider when prioritizing actions related
to disruptions is the frequency of occurrence of these disruptions and their cumulative
financial impact. Therefore, low-impact but frequently occurring disruptions, combined,
may have a more severe impact on shareholder wealth than infrequent high-impact
events. Consequently, it is not irrational for managers to prioritize actions that could
mitigate low-impact, high-likelihood events and especially these, mainly supply-side
disruptions, that could be prohibited through process improvements (Zsidisin et  al.
2016), good scheduling, appropriate maintenance and training, balancing inventory and
capacity across the SC, etc. It is also empirically supported that firms with more opera-
tional slack, more days of inventory (inventory on hand) and a smaller sales over assets
ratio (unutilized capacity), experience a less negative stock market reaction when dis-
ruptions occur, as slack provides resources and the required flexibility to handle disrup-
tions (Hendricks et al. 2009).
Nonetheless, comparative surveys (Hendricks and Singhal 2003; Zsidisin et al. 2016)
show that disruptions have a less detrimental impact to firm financial performance than
in the past. The investigation of the impact to the firms’ stock price of SC glitches’
announcements (> 500) showed a dramatic fall that has smoothed throughout the years.
Specifically, the effect of a SC disruption announcement (resulting in a production or
shipment delay) on shareholder value meant an average reduction of above 10% on
the stock market in the 90s (Hendricks and Singhal 2003), which has reduced to 2% in
the 2000s (Zsidisin et al. 2016) probably due to an increased awareness and mitigation
actions regarding disruptions and fast recovery (Wagner and Neshat 2012). Albeit the
considerable advancements that have been achieved, disruptions now occur in greater
frequency and intensity, therefore the consequences are still, in many cases, dramatic
(Wagner and Neshat 2012). Realizing this negative impact, businesses are recognizing
the importance and are attempting to create and be part of more resilient SCs (Jabbarza-
deh et al. 2018).

---

## 第 13 页

977
Annals of Operations Research (2022) 319:965–1002
1 3
4.4  Resilience methods and recovery strategies
To successfully recover from a SC disruption, a firm needs to activate effective methods
(Blackhurst et al. 2005). According to the literature, managers need to respond to such
incidents by following three identified stages of response: first detecting the volume of
disruption, then designing or selecting a predesigned recovery method to tackle the dis-
ruption and finally deploying the solution (Chopra and Sodhi 2014). Several literature
reviews have described the stages, methods and techniques of firm reaction and recov-
ery after a disruption (Dolgui et al. 2018; DuHadway et al. 2019; Ivanov 2020b; Ivanov
et al. 2017; Sawik 2019).
According to the literature (Chowdhury and Quaddus 2017; Dolgui et  al. 2018)
resistance (proactive approach) and recovery (reactive approach) are included in the
resilience concept. A firm needs to maintain redundancy (high safety-stock, additional
production capacity) and flexibility (alternative suppliers for sourcing, alternative trans-
portation depots and modes for delivery) to resist against disruptions and use them
effectively to reduce their impact. Likewise, the recovery stage incorporates some of the
same tactics as the resistance approach, such as the use of backup suppliers for sourc-
ing, the use of the buffer stock for satisfying customer orders and redundant capacity for
continuing the production (Ivanov et al. 2017).
Other important mitigation strategies for disruptive events focus on better demand
forecasting (Scheibe and Blackhurst 2018), better coordination amongst the SC eche-
lons before and after the disruption with the use of information-sharing (Dubey et al.
2019abc), joint relationship efforts, and decision synchronization (Nakano and Lau
2020) by deploying supply chain management software (such as warehouse and trans-
port management systems and vendor managed inventories) connected to the ERP and
business intelligence software add-ons (Brusset and Teller 2017).
However, surveys show that firms address disruptions most commonly with increased
safety-stock, dual or multi-sourcing, and better forecasting. Although they consider
coordination between the SC nodes very significant to recover from disruptions, in real-
ity they act in isolation and their visibility of the SC extends only to one tier above and
one tier below (Scheibe and Blackhurst 2018). Low collaboration and responsiveness
has emerged as a great vulnerability (Pettit et al. 2013). Real-time supply-chain recon-
figuration software could enhance responsiveness against specific situations (Blackhurst
et al. 2005) and improve coordination and decision-making by recomputing, for exam-
ple, optimal routes and facility selection to maximize demand fulfillment and minimize
penalties and delay costs due to the disruption (Banomyong et al. 2019).
A representative example of the backup sourcing recovery option is the incident
concerning the fire at the Philips microchip plant in Albuquerque. Ericson experienced
a production shutdown because its materials were sourced only from that plant while
Nokia took advantage of its emergency backup sourcing strategy to obtain chips from
other suppliers (Chen and Yang 2014). A resilient design of a SC that promotes flexibil-
ity is described through the BASF example. BASF built a resilient SC with safety and
risk prevention measures that included globally valid guidelines and requirements for
capacity and security trainings for staff. In 2016 a pipeline at BASF facility in Germany
exploded and destroyed a terminal for the supply of raw materials, limiting the access
to key raw materials and product inventories. During this time, logistics was tempo-
rarily shifted from ships and pipelines to trucks and trains. BASF was prepared for an
incident and was in close contact with its customers to keep them informed about the

---

## 第 14 页

978
Annals of Operations Research (2022) 319:965–1002
1 3
current availability of products to minimize the impact on customer deliveries, which
resulted in smaller than expected economic consequences from the accident (Dolgui
et al. 2018). Another example of flexibility importance is the case of the 2015 Nepal
earthquake in which humanitarian organizations offering aid to locals were met with
great disruptions (delays) in relief delivery. They identified the significance of devel-
oping a flexible network with the most influential factors being IT support, fleets’ (re)
scheduling, and relief packages’ volume (Baharmand et al. 2019).
Firms belonging to specific SCs can utilize practical assessment tools from the literature
that were developed to measure their own SC resiliece (Chowdhury and Quaddus 2017;
Pettit et al. 2013). This is a first step to ackowledge their readiness to resist and respond to
disruptions and understand where they should make efforts to improve.
4.5  Popular modeling approaches
4.5.1  Modeling approaches for SC disruptions
Mitigation and recovery are very important procedures and the adoption of these “recovery
strategies” include processes based on quantitative methods (Ivanov et al. 2014a, b), which
usually evaluate the effectiveness of each strategy prior to its implementation. Quantitative
analysis methods for anticipating operational and disruption SC risks mainly include math-
ematical optimization, simulation, and control theory to control risk, respond and stabilize
the execution process in case of disruptions and to recover or minimize the middle-term
and long-term impact of deviations (Ivanov et al. 2017). Mathematical optimization offers
optimal solutions by using algorithmic models; simulations are models that provide the
“what if’ scenarios” and control theory provides additional analytical tools often used to
analyze system dynamic performances over time (Yang and Fan 2016).
More specifically, optimization models offer analytical solutions which determine the
impact of disruptions and identify resilient SC policies. Such models can incorporate a
large variety of parameters and objectives (e.g. minimization of disruption cost). Mixed-
integer programming (MIP) is a category of optimization problems that has been repeat-
edly used to model SC disruptions (Ivanov et al. 2017). However, a major limitation of
optimization models is that they cannot capture the dynamic nature of SCs (e.g. disrup-
tions are modeled as static events, without considering their duration or erratic impact)
and therefore make a high number of assumptions (e.g. known demand, suppliers’ reli-
ability, etc.). On the other hand, stochastic programming modeling allows for the insertion
of some uncertainty through probability distributions depicting disruption event scenarios
and leads to optimal solutions by taking into account multiple objective functions (Sawik
2014). Stochastic programming models incorporate a set of discrete scenarios with a given
probability of occurrence. The probability distributions may describe demand uncertainly,
disruption impact uncertainly, costs uncertainty for applying response and recovery strate-
gies, etc. Stochastic programming techniques have also been used to model disruptions in
SC, however, the scenario-based approach of stochastic programming modelling exponen-
tially increases the number of variables and constraints and makes these models difficult to
implement and run.
Simulation methods are more flexible than stochastic optimization models as they are
used to replicate system behavior and allow for a dynamic approach of randomness in
disruption and recovery policies, as well as they incorporate and handle more complex-
ity (more probabilistic scenarios for more variables simultaneously), incorporate the time

---

## 第 15 页

979
Annals of Operations Research (2022) 319:965–1002
1 3
dimension and even offer real-time analysis, and multiple results under each what-if sce-
nario. Simulation can also be applied to enhance the optimization results or be used as
a simulation-based optimization technique. Simulation techniques such as discrete-event
simulation, system dynamics, agent-based modeling, optimization-based simulation and
graph theory-based simulation have been applied to describe and model the impact of the
ripple effect in SC disruptions (Ivanov et al. 2017) among other things.
Control theory has also the analytical ability to execute SCs over time and is used to
analyze eventual system dynamic performances. The development of control models is
usually related to specific operational risks which constitute the key control metrics (such
as, demand fluctuation, degree of information sharing, speed of convergence) for quantify-
ing disruption recovery performance (Ivanov and Sokolov 2019; Yang and Fan 2016).
Another technique which is apparent in the analysis of SC disruptions is graph theory
(e.g. Bayesian network, decision trees) which, through mathematical structures, describes
the interrelationships of the SC and based on the predictions and decision scenarios model
pairwise relations between entities (Hosseini and Ivanov 2019). Finally, game theory (e.g.
Stackelberg game) is another type of mathematical modeling which focuses on the stra-
tegic interaction among rational decision-makers and, given the order of decisions from
decision-makers, certain scenarios are deployed about their reactions in SC disruptions.
Needless to say, inventory theory is dominantly used for modeling SC disruptions. It
incorporates popular inventory models (deterministic or stochastic optimization models),
such as economic order quantity models and periodic review models which determine
safety stock, optimal ordering and production quantities during the design of resilient SCs
and the recovery period to minimize total costs, capturing the trade-offs between inventory
policies and disruption risks. These models can be two-echelon or multi-echelon models
based on the length of the SC.
In the examined articles, we have identified that most papers use optimization methods,
followed by papers that apply simulation techniques. There are also studies that present sta-
tistical analysis of database data or survey, e.g. (Brusset and Teller 2017) or that use graph
theory, e.g. (Nakatani et al. 2018) and game theory, e.g. (Fang and Shou 2015). From the
optimization methods notable is the use of stochastic programing e.g. (Snoeck et al. 2019),
mixed-integer programming, e.g. (Amini and Li 2011) and multi-objective programing e.g.
(Teimuory et al. 2013). The simulation methods used are discrete-event simulation, e.g.
(Ivanov et al. 2017), system dynamics, e.g. (Kochan et al. 2018) and agent-based modeling,
e.g. (Hou et al. 2018). Looking into our article pool, the papers that have developed quan-
titative analysis methods model resilience, response and recovery strategies. (Appendix
Table 5 shows 10 indicative papers as examples of the variety of quantitative methods used
in the relevant literature with a brief explanation of the model’s purpose.)
Quantitative techniques offer a great range of analysis which varies from solving single,
simple problems to very complex and interrelated ones. The latter more precisely describes
the need of SC modeling. Operations and supply chain managers can choose from the
available quantitative tools for different application areas of SC disruptions and determine
an optimal or near optimal solution.
4.5.2  Modeling approaches for the ripple effect
Special attention is given in the most recent literature (after 2014) with regards to the rip-
ple effect and the ways to manage it/reduce it through tactics that are tested in quantitative
models. From a search in the Web of Science database regarding the literature on the ripple

---

## 第 16 页

980
Annals of Operations Research (2022) 319:965–1002
1 3
effect of SCs (keywords: “ripple effect” and “supply chain”), 31 journal papers have been
identified, 18 of which are published in the IJPR, 3 in the International Journal of Produc-
tion Economics (IJPE) and the remaining 10 each in different journals. Prof Ivanov is the
author in 21 of these, establishing the ripple-effect as a scientific topic in the area of SC
disruption management, by using an analogy to computer science where ripple effect deter-
mines the disruption-based scope of changes in the system (Ivanov et al. 2014a, b).
Α thorough analysis of the ripple effect in SCs is given in a review paper (Ivanov et al.
2014a, b) and its follow-up (Dolgui et al. 2018) which provides a framework for the reasons
of the ripple effect (sourcing strategy, production planning, inventory management, and
control), presents its quantitative modelling approaches (including mixed-integer program-
ming, simulation, control theory, complexity and reliability theory) and provides an ana-
lytic count down of future research avenues. Adding to the latter an overview paper demon-
strates the positive impact of technology (big data analytics, 3D printing, blockchain, etc.)
on the ripple effect mitigation (Ivanov et al. 2019). Attention is also drawn to case studies.
For example a highly cited paper published in IJPE (Koh et al. 2012), assesses impact of
actions for greening the SC and the triggering of the ripple effect and another one based on
the analysis of the 2009 Italian earthquake uses MIP to model protection plans of regional
disruptions by identifying which facilities to protect first (Liberatore et al. 2012).
The majority of the remaining papers in the literature on ripple effect are focused on
modelling the phenomenon, which requires the inclusiosn of many SC echelons and thus
more complex processes in the model, and exploring mitigation tactics. This is done by the
use of mathematical models e.g. (Hosseini and Ivanov 2019; Ivanov et al. 2015; Ivanov
et al. 2013; Kinra et al. 2019; Pavlov et al. 2019; Sokolov et al. 2016) or by simulation
techniques which are frequently used to present the ripple effect phenomenon (Dolgui et al.
2019; Hosseini et al. 2019b; Ivanov 2017; Ivanov et al. 2016a, b). (Appendix Table 6 gives
an overview and a categorization of the main papers focusing on the phenonmenon and
their contribution).
Research on papers that focus on the ripple effect is dominated by the performance anal-
ysis of disruptions probabilities, especially for supplier failure. There is an urge for stud-
ies to explore other characteristics too by applying new modelling approaches with real
company data and visualization techniques (Dolgui et al. 2018; Kinra et al. 2019). For-
ward and backward propagation analysis with the use of Bayesian networks and inclusion
of the dynamic recovery time and cost by applying multi-objective stochastic optimization
and agent-based models are some of the approaches that can be tried out (Hosseini et al.
2019a).
4.6  Cost–benefit analysis of supply chain resilience
Since disruption implies serious commercial costs, the mechanisms for resilience, response
and recovery are of vital importance to all SC echelons. An approach to reducing the costs
of disturbance events is to highly motivate the managers to implement risk mitigation pro-
grams in the firm and engage in knowledge development activities (Cantor et al. 2014).
Therefore, SCs should be protected in anticipation of disruptions by means of mitigation
actions such as having safety stock, capacity reservations, backup sources and other meth-
ods, which nevertheless raise the level of management complexity and end-up being costly
solutions themselves, especially if no disruption happens (Ivanov et al. 2019). So, resilient
SC designs result in costly systems, which could negatively influence SC’s financial perfor-
mance. To overcome the resulted costs, an efficient combination of resilient elements must

---

## 第 17 页

981
Annals of Operations Research (2022) 319:965–1002
1 3
be implemented, such as structural variety and complexity reduction, process and resource
utilization flexibility and non-expensive parametric redundancy together with decision-
support systems for SCs (Ivanov et al. 2019). Nevertheless, researchers have come to the
conclusion that the cost for building resilience by using slack resources and visibility is
smaller than the cost of SC disruptions (Jabbarzadeh et al. 2018).
Unfortunately, cost–benefit analysis (CBA) is not common in studies that present SC
control models (Ivanov et al. 2019). The beneficial portion of the CBA can be modelled
via the reduction of the disruption risk by a given percentage or its incurring costs, the
shortening of the period of the disruption impact or via sustaining the service level (Nam-
dar et al. 2018). On the other hand, although the cost of risk mitigation is considered vis-
ible (e.g. performance measures include fixed and variable costs, disruption costs, recovery
cost), its accurate calculation is made difficult by the fact that recovery costs are generated
by the adoption of a combination of proactive and reactive policies while cost analysis
can also be extended to the operative losses and long-term future impact of deviation and
recovery (Ivanov et al. 2017).
Nevertheless, there are many studies in the literature that, in their modeling approach,
incorporate in the objective function the cost element and then by running what-if sce-
narios can measure the impact of certain policies and the overall benefit. For example, a
study (Mori et al. 2014) developed a risk simulator for a multi-tier supply chain to evaluate
the cost of retailer’s decentralized ordering and the effect of risk mitigation, identifying the
cost–benefit relationship. Another study used a MIP which enables what-if analyses of cost
and performance trade-off options in the SC (Das and Lashkari 2015).
Therefore, the use of quantitative models are viable methods for testing ways of mini-
mizing costs of disruptions and contributing to the responsiveness and flexibility of the
entire SC. Another identified way is for companies to choose to invest in social responsibil-
ity in order to balance disruption costs and resilience planning. Even though investment in
corporate social responsibility activities could bring more cost to the company, it is also
capable of increasing profit and reducing risk by decreasing production inefficiencies and
increasing sales, access to capital and new markets (Cruz 2009). In line with this, it is the
firm’s investment in good communication infrastructure, with the help of professionally
qualified marketing agencies, that help problems with demand risks (e.g. demand decline)
be mitigated (Diabat et  al. 2012) or the implementation of pre-disaster/pre-disruption
defense measures, such as insurance purchasing (Song and Du 2017). In any of these cases
top management commitment is essential for building robust SC connectivity and informa-
tion sharing systems to accomplish efficient SC integration (Shibin et al. 2017)
4.7  Popular IT tools for resilience and response to disruptions
Modeling methods paired together with digitization enabled the development of tools that
have led to many interesting applications for aiding SCs in general and SC resilience and
real-time response to disruptions in specific. Many papers in our database offer very inter-
esting overviews of digital technologies and their impact in mitigating disruption risks in
the SC.
Computerized planning systems tools, such as materials requirements planning, manu-
facturing resource planning and enterprise resource planning (ERP) were the first software
to help with the scheduling of operations and timely rescheduling in the case of disruptions
and the retrieval of enterprise data from a single access point for informed decision-mak-
ing (Baryannis et al. 2019a, b), especially in cases of emergency interventions. Moreover,

---

## 第 18 页

982
Annals of Operations Research (2022) 319:965–1002
1 3
flexible manufacturing systems with sensors and advanced robots for more precise, reliable
and easily adaptable production processes; automated guided vehicles and automated track-
ing and tracing technologies for safe, accurate and fast fulfillment of orders from whole-
salers; radio frequency identification (RFID) for inventory control; geographic positioning
systems (GPS) for timely and less costly distribution of goods are all technologies that have
highly been adopted in the last decades and have greatly aided the SCs and reduced their
response time, especially with their real-time capabilities for fast implementation of contin-
gency plans (Blackhurst et al. 2005).
Then, the Internet of Things (IoT) have taken these technologies a step forward. The
IOT is a dynamic network infrastructure with self-configuring capabilities of interoper-
able physical devices (Things), such as wireless sensors, smart devices, RFID chips, GPS,
which can monitor, report and exchange data using intelligent interfaces seamlessly inte-
grated into the information (Wi-Fi or data) network (Kranenburg 2008). The IOT can effec-
tively track and authenticate products and shipments and inform on the location of goods,
their storage condition and their time of arrival. Enhanced with augmented reality, which
adds digital elements to a live view by using a camera, the IOT combines the real with the
virtual world. A few examples of the uses of augmented reality in SCs are: the easier navi-
gation of workers or tracing systems in the warehouse with the help of a graphic overlay of
the space and its products, the reduction in the searching time of courier drivers for a box
in the truck for the next delivery with a graphic overlay of the initial loading of products in
the truck, informing the customers in real-time about prices and stock availability of items
on the shelves by incorporating virtual labels viewable from smartphone cameras or google
glasses. Like this, IoT and augmented reality technologies offer SC visibility and trace-
ability, sending early warnings of internal and external disruptions that require attention,
reducing uncertainty and enhancing effective internal operations and collaboration among
all SC players (Ben-Daya, Hassini, & Bahroun, 2019).
Moreover, Industry 4.0, 3D printing, big data analytics (BDA), as well as blockchain
also constitute tools of the new era that quickly find their way into the business world.
With the help of the IOT, Industry 4.0 is the smart factory of cyber-physical systems,
like internet-connected workstations, conveyors and robotics, which autonomously control
and monitor the route of products in the assembly line offering customized configuration
(Katsaliaki and Mustafee 2019). Hence, Industry 4.0 enables the production of customized
goods at the cost of mass production, with shorter lead times and better capacity utilization.
Cost risks are minimized while higher market flexibility and responsiveness to customers
is offered with customized products and risk diversification (Ivanov et al. 2019). On the
other hand, 3D printing (additive manufacturing) builds a 3D object from a computer-aided
design model by sequentially adding material layer by layer. This method of production,
which progressively broadens the range of products it offers, constitutes a disruptive tech-
nology to the traditional SC configuration as products can be manufactured to SC echelons
closer to the customer and even at the retailer’s site. The shorter lead times and the reduc-
tion in demand risks as manufacturing comes closer to the customer are the main contribu-
tions made by this technology (Ivanov et al. 2019) to aid in the reduction of disruptions.
With recent revolutions in technology, data is generated much quicker from different
sources and technologies are in place capable for their storage, categorization and analy-
sis. Statistical analysis and reliability become stronger with the increased data volume and
the high number of factors for analysis. Therefore, predictive methods have better explana-
tory power (Gunasekaran et  al. 2016) and together with machine learning algorithms,
artificial intelligence (AI) that allows computers to evolve behaviors based on empirical
data (Chen and Zhang 2014) offer answers to demanding questions and what-if scenarios

---

## 第 19 页

983
Annals of Operations Research (2022) 319:965–1002
1 3
through prescriptive analytics. Big data analytics and machine learning methods came to
the foreground as enablers of value creation from massive data, offering new competitive
advantages to companies (Chen et al. 2012). They have increased SC data visibility and
data transparency and can reduce information disruption risks and behavioral uncertainty
as well as demand risks through predictability (Baryannis et al. 2019a, b; Brintrup et al.
2019); all of which are positively linked to SC resilience.
Blockchain technology is a distributed database of records or shared public/private
ledgers of all digital events that have been executed and shared among participating block-
chain agents (Crosby et al. 2016). Blockchains can be considered a disruptive technology
for the general management of SCs, specifically in the field of suppliers’ contracts. Dis-
tributed contract collaboration platforms using blockchain technology could guarantee the
traceability and authenticity of information, along with smart contracts (computer proto-
cols which digitally verify or enforce the agreed terms between the members of a contract
without third parties’ involvement). These transactions are trackable and irreversible and
validate transactions (Saberi et al. 2019). This brings a new era in SCs and a remedy to
fraudulent acts and security risks (Wang et al. 2019).
Especially for the ripple effect, information technology can have a very positive miti-
gation influence. RFID technology can offer feedback control and SC event management
systems can communicate disruptions to the other SC tiers and assist in revising and adapt-
ing schedules. For example, Resilience360 at DHL is a cloud-based analytics platform for
managing disruption risks by mapping end-to-end SC partners, building risk profiles, iden-
tifying critical hotspots in order to initiate mitigation actions and alert in near-real time
mode about events that could possibly disrupt the SC (Dolgui et al. 2018).
4.8  Future research agenda
Following a content analysis of selective papers on SC disruptions, future directions have
been identified which we hope will inspire new scholars to establish their research agenda
in this field. The selection of the research topics was made primarily on the grounds of
managerial applicability without diminishing the importance of theory advancements.
The great majority of the papers include a shorter or longer future research section but, in
many cases, this is targeted to the advancement of their modelling technique, of their data
collection approach, or the hypothesis testing which are out of the scope of this study’s
agenda. Below we take a practical approach of the field and we try to map research on
SC disruptions especially with regards to the use of new tools and resilience approaches.
There is a list of 34 research directions organized in seven themes. These relate to research
about (a) effective resilience strategies, (b) SC disruptions in specific sectors, (c) a spe-
cial focus on human resources management (HRM) and behavioral analysis, (d) modelling
approaches with an emphasis on the ripple effect, e) combination of modeling approaches
with new information technologies (IT), f) research about the implementation of these new
IT/digital technologies and g) research driven by the recent enormous disruptions due to
the COVID19 pandemic. It is notable that about 1/3rd of these topics are related to the use
of digital technologies which greatly enhance modeling capabilities and decision-making
to tackle and resist SC disruptions. Each research direction begins with a short title in bold,
depicting its aim and its methodology approach.

---

## 第 20 页

984
Annals of Operations Research (2022) 319:965–1002
1 3
4.9  Resilience strategies
(1)	 Resilience Strategies—Multi-method (modelling, survey) Which strategy or combina-
tion of strategies: redundancy (excess inventory, spare capacity, multiple sourcing),
flexibility (flexible production systems and distribution channels, multi-skilled work-
force), collaborative planning (information-sharing, joint relationship efforts, decision
synchronization), contingency planning (back-up suppliers-transportation modes) is
most effective for building resilient SCs to disruption risks? (Centobelli et al. 2019)
(2)	 Resilience Strategies—Survey, case study Is it true that SCs that adopt a flexibility
strategy utilize a higher degree of information sharing and collaboration through higher
ICT utilization in comparison to adopting a redundant strategy? Is it true that redundant
strategies are more expensive to implement (need more capital and operating cost) than
flexibility strategies? (Nakano & Lau, 2020).
(3)	 Resilience Strategies—Survey What is the effect and relative importance of specific
disruptions (such as, ineffective suppliers’ management, lack of information sharing
and risk assessment) so managers can prioritize the allocation of resources to tackle
them? (Centobelli et al. 2019).
(4)	 Risk metrics—Survey What are the most effective, as opposed to the most used SC
risk metrics (performance measurement system), among recovery time, safety stock,
customer service level, total cost and others, for managers to focus on and under which
circumstances (e.g. ripple effect)? (Dolgui et al. 2018).
4.10  Certain sectors of SC disruptions’ application areas
(5)	 Military—Mixed methods Exploring effective disaster resilience approaches for the
military (Centobelli et al. 2019).
(6)	 Perishable products—Modelling Modelling disruptions in the SC of perishable prod-
ucts and their limited resilience strategies as redundancy strategies may not be an
option (freshness, write-offs) but others may be, such as customer segmentation by
requirements for freshness and product batching (Dolgui et al. 2018).
(7)	 Food—Mixed methods Analysis of the use of the IoT and other recent technologies
for preventing avoidable food waste generation, food safety and efficiency throughout
the food SC (Ben-Daya et al. 2019).
(8)	 Information Systems disruptions—Mixed methods Research on disruptions in the
information systems and the networked cloud-based digital SC environment (Dolgui
et al. 2018).
(9)	 Reverse logistics—Modelling Studying the disruptions that take place in the reverse
logistics flows of SCs (e.g. unavailability/limited space in the warehouse that stores
the collected recyclable materials) for analyzing their impact to the overall SC per-
formance and identifying effective response and mitigation strategies (Dolgui et al.
2018).
(10)	 Humanitarian aid—Modelling Analysis of the fair allocation of the limited resources
in situations of severe regional disasters which usually simultaneously lead to humani-
tarian emergency and industrial crisis, in order to balance human life rescue, everyday
life and the recovery of the industrial sector (Dolgui et al. 2018).

---

## 第 21 页

985
Annals of Operations Research (2022) 319:965–1002
1 3
4.11  HRM
(11)	 Behavioral analysis—Modelling Employing agent-based simulation to model manage-
rial decisions subject to individual risk perceptions, such as collaboration issues (trust
and information sharing) and SC risk management culture (leadership and risk-averse
behavior) (Dolgui et al. 2018).
(12)	 Behavioral analysis—Mixed methods Analysis of the patterns of human behavior
when managers are faced with real data or the dashboards of big data and visualiza-
tion/cognitive computing approaches (that their development mechanisms may or may
not be trusted) and the nature of their governance and decision-making, especially
when related decision refer to disasters causing humanitarian crises (de Oliveira and
Handfield, 2019).
(13)	 Training—Survey Analyzing ways that offer successful training to company staff in the
related departments to effectively cope with SC disruptions, which create a stressful
environment and require preparedness (Dolgui et al. 2018).
4.12  Modelling methods about SC disruptions
(14)	 Ripple effect—Multiple models Modelling SC disruptions by considering the dynamic
recovery time/cost. More modelling approaches are needed for capturing the disrup-
tion propagation and SC design survivability and for evaluating recovery policies and
their implementation (Dolgui et al. 2018).
(15)	 Ripple effect—Stochastic modelling Development of two-stage stochastic models with
the first-stage objective function to minimize the traditional SC cost (procurement,
supplier evaluation, transportation costs) and the second-stage objective function
to measure the SC resilience under all possible disruption scenarios (Hosseini et al.
2019a).
(16)	 Ripple effect—Model validation Practical validation of the simulation and optimiza-
tion models for preventing and mitigating the ripple effect in the SC with real com-
pany data, such as coordinated contingency plans (Dolgui et al. 2018).
(17)	 Ripple effect—Model visualization Adding visualizing features to the simulation mod-
els of the ripple effect (Dolgui et al. 2018).
(18)	 Ripple effect—Bayesian Networks Forward and backward propagation analysis using
Bayesian Networks (a unique capability of this method) by entering any number of
disruption observations to analyze the ripple effect in complex supply networks with
a large number of nodes and links (Hosseini et al. 2019a).
(19)	 Resilience Vs Sustainability—Multi-objective stochastic optimization Developing
multi-objective stochastic optimization models capable of making trade-offs between
resilience (that requires capacity buffer, surplus inventory, multiple sourcing) and
sustainability decisions (which on the contrary requires less redundancy) (Hosseini
et al. 2019a).
(20)	 Large supply networks—Modelling Toolbox Development of a common language to
facilitate the development of reference models for supply networks with a standard-
ized toolbox of supply network representations and identification of suitable methods
for analyzing risks in complex supply networks (Bier et al. 2019) and will accelerate
comprehension and execution.

---

## 第 22 页

986
Annals of Operations Research (2022) 319:965–1002
1 3
4.13  Hybrid models combined with IT
(21)	 Predicting SC disruptions—Prediction and machine learning algorithms Develop-
ment of prediction models and adaptation of SC disruptions management practices
with the use of prediction algorithms and machine learning techniques such as unsu-
pervised learning algorithms which can be used to mine SC data, identify patterns
related to certain risks and be trained to recognize risk patterns and their incurring
probability (Baryannis et al. 2019a, b).
(22)	 Risk management practices—Mathematical programming, Multi agent systems,
Semantic reasoning, Machine learning techniques and BDA Development of hybrid
models to analyze risk management practices by combining mathematical program-
ming (effective in modelling highly complex systems for SC risk avoidance and
mitigation), with agent-based approaches, BDA and machine learning techniques
(capable of automated decision-making by creating automated rule-based reasoning
and learning and handling of big and variable data) in order to select an appropriate
response strategy (Baryannis et al. 2019a, b; Hosseini et al. 2019a).
(23)	 Digital SC twin—Simulation, optimization and BDA Analysis of the combination of
simulation, optimization and data analytics to create a digital SC twin – a model that
represents the state of the network in real-time (Ivanov et al. 2019) offering end-to-
end SC visibility when all players are included. A disruption in a SC echelon can be
reported by a risk data monitoring tool and transmitted to the simulation model. The
simulation model in the digital twin can measure disruption propagation and impact,
test recovery policies and adapt the contingency plans based on the situation (e.g.
considering back-up routes on-the-spot) (Hosseini et al. 2019a; Ivanov et al. 2019).
(24)	 IoT – Modelling Modelling SC problems (procurement, production planning, inven-
tory management, quality, maintenance) in an IoT environment. Decision-making in
an IoT context requires new tools and models to exploit the new environment, such
as big data generated from sensors and connected things (Ben-Daya et al. 2019).
(25)	 Resilience strategies—BDA and AI Analysis of how BDA and AI techniques can help
with SC disruptions and the mechanics for achieving it. For example in global SCs
where sales volumes and product variability are high and disperse, the analysis of
SC big data (sales, buying behavior, product inventory, transportation channels, dis-
tribution frequency and production rates) can reduce demand uncertainty and sensor
data in distribution centers which can mitigate logistics risks and increase visibility
and trust among suppliers (Baryannis et al. 2019a, b). Some evidence also exists
(Griffith et al. 2019) that the BDA and AI technologies can assist visibility (e.g. with
open-source imagery tools and analytic mapping tools) in disaster relief chains and
humanitarian logistics but how this can be done is a question that requires further
investigation (Dubey et al. 2019abc).
(26)	 Identification of suppliers based on proximity—machine learning algorithm Devel-
opment of a learning algorithm to deduce location-based relationships of suppliers
by identifying the localization of suppliers from public data sources (Brintrup et al.
2019).
(27)	 Large supply chain networks—BDA Analysis of large-scale complex supply networks
and their risks (as in their majority researchers illustrate their contributions using
small cases) with the use of current digital technologies which facilitate collection of
big data from across the SC. Having such test datasets of realistic size and complexity
for SCs would result in more empirical insights (Bier et al. 2019).

---

## 第 23 页

987
Annals of Operations Research (2022) 319:965–1002
1 3
4.14  Digital technologies
(28)	 Blockchain—Survey, case study Testing the hypothesis that implementing blockchain
technology in SCs decreases opportunistic behavior of SC players like subtle violation
of agreements and concealing of critical information due to the transparency, security,
and auditability that the technology promotes (Saberi et al. 2019).
(29)	 Blockchain—Survey, case study Supply chain governance structure characteristics
need to be evaluated for effectiveness in understanding blockchain-based SCs where
no central authority is responsible for information management and validation. Analy-
sis is required regarding who and what governs transactions, rules, and policies. Will
operational relationships improve their outcome due to the features of blockchain
technology, which do not require strategic formal coordination (Saberi et al. 2019)?
(30)	 IoT—Survey, case study Provision of guidance for IoT adoption from companies as
to which process and where in the SC they should deploy IoT, given that SC partners
may be at different stages of the IoT implementation (Ben-Daya et al. 2019).
4.15  Disease outbreaks/pandemics/COVID19
(31)	 Pandemic—Mixed Methods Measuring how the Covid-19 or other pandemics affect
firms, employees, consumers, and markets for formulating effective policy responses
to the challenges posed by the crisis (Hassan et al. 2020).
(32)	 Pandemic—Modelling Development of a contingency plan framework with operat-
ing policies for specific SCs deriving from the analysis of modeling techniques that
simulate disease breakouts, as unlike other disruption risks, epidemic outbreaks start
small but spread fast and disperse over many geographic regions creating increased
uncertainty (Ivanov 2020a). A special case are products with high demand during
disease outbreaks such as medical face masks, sanitizers, etc. Evaluation of the SC
behaviors of adaptation, digitalization, preparedness, recovery, ripple effect, and sus-
tainability during and after pandemics (Queiroz et al. 2020).
(33)	 Pandemic—Modelling, case study How do changing regulations due to the pandemic
(lockdowns, changing working patterns, etc.) impact productivity throughout the sup-
ply chain? How do dark (fully automated) warehouses and other operational solutions
for contactless or zero interaction among employees or employees with customers
impact firms’ performance, employees’ work environments and customer experience?
(Mollenkopf et al. 2020)
(34)	 Pandemic/digital technologies—Modelling, case study Investigation of the utilization
of digital technologies, such as digital SC twins, omnichannel, additive and digital
manufacturing, to support decision-making in long-term disruptions caused by pan-
demic outbreaks (Ivanov and Dolgui 2020).
5  Discussion
In this study, we aimed to present an overview of the literature in order to provide a pic-
ture of SC disturbances and resilience methods. We first mapped all relevant studies and
provided a profile of the popular articles. The second part of the paper, through content

---

## 第 24 页

988
Annals of Operations Research (2022) 319:965–1002
1 3
analysis, presented the knowledge offered in selected articles in a comprehensive and nar-
rative way. Both methods concluded in a synthesis of knowledge about SC disruptions and
resilience methods which we believe are useful to researchers and managers alike.
5.1  Research implications
Our study has numerous implications for researchers. First, it provides a useful introduction
to the field through the profiling study which focuses on the key literature. It shows that
publications about SC disruptions started appearing after 2004 but the field has matured
fast and in these 15-20 years is populated by many studies which explain and evaluate the
impact of the adoption of certain response strategies to SC disruptions and risks. How-
ever, this is not to say that the field has been over-researched but on the contrary it has
become as hot as ever due to the recent pandemic of COVID19 and the enormous disrup-
tions that has caused to the whole world. Therefore, more research is required for specific
and new types of disruptions but also in general for all types as innovative ways of building
resilience are created by utilizing modelling techniques and new digital technologies. Two
popular review studies on SC disruptions and risks are (Kleindorfer and Saad 2005; Tang
2006) and two more trending papers deal with Industry 4.0 (Ivanov et al. 2019) and block-
chain (Saberi et al. 2019).
As SC disruptions occur in greater frequency and intensity (Zsidisin et al. 2016), we
hierarchized them based on the literature by type, impact and occurrence, starting from
the catastrophic events of low frequency and high impact and concluding with the infra-
structural events of high occurrence but lower impact. Although the urge so far has been to
research high occurrence but lower impact SC disruptions which cumulative cause a non-
negligible and continuous problem to SCs (Zsidisin et al. 2016), the new unforeseen pan-
demic seems to rush research towards the other direction as already in 2020 a number of
papers have been published in the particular topic, e.g.(Ivanov 2020a; Queiroz et al. 2020).
Our study also examined the growing research on the ripple/snowball effect of perturba-
tions originating in a localized point which amplifies consequences for the downstream SC
echelons, as opposed to the bullwhip effect which impacts the SC upstream. The realiza-
tions of the ripple effect consequences is another reason for more research in SC disrup-
tions with models that take into considerations many echelons across the SC.
Moreover, the study presents an analysis supported with examples of quantitative
approaches which were used to model the SCs based on risk factors, their impacts, mitiga-
tion tactics’ costs and benefits and what-if scenarios for testing certain strategies (Das and
Lashkari 2015). Optimization is the mathematical method most often used for this purpose
(stochastic programing, mixed-integer programing, multi-objective programing) followed
by simulation techniques (system dynamics, discrete-event simulation, agent-based model
and Monte-Carlo simulations) that can handle more uncertainty and complexity. Statis-
tical analysis, graph theory and game theory are also among the modeling methods that
are distinguished in the papers of our review. Many models incorporate a function of cost
to measure the impact of disruptions and provide a cost–benefit analysis of mitigation or
resilience actions.
There is also an attempt to benefit, with regards to data promptness and accuracy, from
the operability with new digital solutions (e.g. IOT, BDA, machine learning) to build real-
time reconfigurable SC models based on the incurring disruption and knowledge that has
been accumulated from past reactions. These trends call for new principles and models
to support SCM and populate the future research agenda. Such promising methods for

---

## 第 25 页

989
Annals of Operations Research (2022) 319:965–1002
1 3
dynamic supply-chain models are Agent-based models, which are configurable distributed
software components that continually realign goals and processes (Blackhurst et al. 2005).
In the research agenda of SC disruptions and the ripple effect, notable is the call for the
development of quantitative decision-making models coupled with the new digital tech-
nologies’ capabilities including blockchain contracts. Another area is the behavioral analy-
sis of managers who interpret the automated generated knowledge and the importance of
receiving training for tackling SC disruptions and increasing the level of preparedness. The
study offers a long list of topics in the field that require immediate investigation from inter-
ested researchers. While the research dealing with disease outbreaks from the humanitarian
logistics aspect provides a substantial body of knowledge, e.g. (Banomyong et al. 2019;
Dubey et al. 2019abc), the literature on analyzing the impact of pandemics from a business
point of view is still limited (Ivanov 2020a) but growing fast. Therefore a special focus is
required with regards to SC disruptions caused due to pandemics, such as COVID19. New
and fast changing regulations for lockdowns, transport guidelines and employees’ working
conditions call for urgent understanding and evaluation of their effect in the SCs and identi-
fication of appropriate ways to react and adapt with the minimum possible distraction.
5.2  Managerial implications
The review part of this study has also identified several interesting points with managerial
applicability.
The literature brings up several recovery and resilient strategies and methods that firms
choose to adopt either in isolation or in coordination with the other SC echelons. The aim
should be to build resilience to reduce or avoid disruptions (Hosseini et al. 2019a). Popu-
lar resilience strategies are redundancy building through safety stock, capacity reservations
and multiple sourcing but more effective is considered the flexibility acquisition strategy
through alternative suppliers, contingency plans and the adoption of ICT for information
access, tracing, monitoring, warning, reporting and prediction of SC risk for fast response
and rescheduling of operations (Centobelli et  al. 2019). Moreover, information-sharing,
collaborative communication with the other SC echelons, joint relationship efforts from
the product/service design until its delivery and the reverse logistics flow and decision syn-
chronization utilizing ICT capabilities (Nakano and Lau 2020) are all cost-effective ways
for building resilience to SC disruptions and minimizing the occurrences and the duration
of man-made disruptions.
Digital technologies have also played a crucial role, maybe the most important of all,
in the improvement of SC performance enabling new capabilities of real-time recon-
figurations and fast response and implementation of emergency plans in cases of dis-
ruptions. While the individual contributors (e.g. robots, sensors, RFID, agents, modular
factories, etc.) are not new, they are becoming more approachable and companies more
receptive to using them to stay competitive. More recent technologies, such as the IOT,
augmented reality, Industry 4.0, 3D printing, BDA, artificial intelligence and blockchain
are all examples of tools that are progressively changing the way SCs are organized. The
level of accuracy, transparency, traceability and flexibility is immensely growing, trans-
forming SCs to systems which continuously evolve and can be reconfigured on demand.
Involvement of such technologies, which are often characterized as disruptive to the
traditional SC model, have the potential to shrink SCs, and also produce better quality,
reduce product development times, increase customized offerings to customers (Viswa-
nadham 2018) and be more prepared for timely reactions to perturbations. Applicability

---

## 第 26 页

990
Annals of Operations Research (2022) 319:965–1002
1 3
studies of these technologies in the business environment are part of the future agenda.
More importantly at the current situation of the rapid-spreading pandemic which has
caused so many SC disruptions the whole business world is changing the business
model by fast-tracking digital transformation to increase chances of survival.
Natural disasters and disease outbreaks consequences can be mitigated through resil-
ient management of the relief SC operation. Development of trust between humanitar-
ian organisations and other partners/stakeholders is necessary for coping with complex
tasks during disaster relief and following standard code of ethics (Awasthy et al. 2019).
Therefore, a focus on metrics and performance measurement such as delivery time,
number of saved lives, the quantity of distributed relief items, and operations’ costs
is essential in order to empower the effectiveness and long-term relationships of the
humanitarian aids and relief SCs (Baharmand et al. 2019). Foremost, research empha-
sizes the development of flexible resiliency strategies with assisting technological solu-
tions, such as BDA and AI technologies offering open-source imagery tools and analytic
mapping tools in humanitarian logistics, for improving responsiveness through informa-
tion and materials pipeline visibility and increased effectiveness of processes through
better management of the scene (Griffith et al. 2019). Flexible networks with prompt
rescheduling functions can achieve the required balance between speed and quality of
the survival processes.
6  Conclusions
IT professionals continually develop new applications with big data capabilities to help
stakeholders increase value (Galetsi et al. 2019), thus there are expectations for the alloca-
tion of higher budgets towards IT infrastructure and BDA experts (Galetsi et al. 2020).
Investing in appropriate technology and quality information sharing helps with SC visi-
bility, enhances trust and cooperation among SC partners and eventually leads to a more
resilient SC (Dubey et al. 2019a,b,c; Kamalahmadi and Mellat-Parast 2016) against disrup-
tive events. This should be the focus of the top administration of each firm alone and in
collaboration with the other echelons of their SC. Supply chains should embrace the TQM
(total quality management) philosophy of prevention, as studies have shown that building
resilience is less costly than recovering from problems (Jabbarzadeh et al. 2018). Yet, it is
impossible to completely avoid disruption and attention should also be drawn to the recov-
ery policies regardless of what caused the disruption. Therefore, human-driven adaptation
first, followed by computer-driven adaptation, is needed to change SC plans, inventory
policies and schedules to achieve the desired performance, which is the precondition of
stability and robustness (Ivanov et al. 2013). As SCs become more global and complex,
the impact of any disruption intensifies. The answer is building resilience by incorporating
longer term partnerships, government policy that enables flexibility, an IT approach that
fosters business continuity (Wright 2013) and a culture of readiness in contingency actions.

---

## 第 27 页

991
Annals of Operations Research (2022) 319:965–1002
1 3
Table 3   Top 10 referenced articles in supply chain disruptions
TITLE – JOURNAL - Ref
Contribution
1
Perspectives in Supply Chain Risk
Management. International Journal of
Production Economics Tang (2006)
It develops a framework for classifying SC risk management
literature. It reviews quantitative models for managing SC
risks and relates such strategies with actual practices. One of
the first reviews to provide a holistic approach for tackling
risks with effective supply contracts information sharing,
demand shifting, product postponement, etc.
2
Managing Disruption Risks in Supply
Chains. Production & Operations Man-
agement Kleindorfer and Saad (2005)
It provides a conceptual framework for SC disruptions’ man-
agement, depicting actions of risk assessment and mitigation
followed by empirical results from accidents in the chemical
industry. It is one of the early studies to discuss the concepts
of SC disruptions
3
Managing Risk to Avoid Supply-chain
Breakdown. MIT Sloan Management
Review Chopra and Sodhi (2004)
An overview of risk factors for SC disruptions and mitigation
strategies supported by real case examples. Textbook style
4
On the Value of Mitigation and Contin-
gency Strategies for Managing Supply
Chain Disruption Risks. Management
Science Tomlin (2006)
It explores sourcing strategies by developing an inventory-
optimization problem for risk-averse and risk-neutral firms’
decisions between the selection of an unreliable supplier and
a reliable one that is more expensive
5
The Severity of Supply Chain Disruptions:
Design Characteristics and Mitigation
Capabilities. Decision Sciences Craig-
head et al. (2007)
Through semi-structured interviews and focus groups the paper
explores how and why one SC disruption could be more
severe than another. It presents six propositions that relate to
the severity of SC disruptions to three SC design character-
istics of density, complexity, and node and to two SC mitiga-
tion capabilities of recovery and warning
6
An empirical analysis of the effect of sup-
ply chain disruptions on long-run stock
price performance and equity risk of the
firm Hendricks and Singhal (2005)
The study investigates the impact of 827 disruption announce-
ments made the period 1989–2000 to the stock price of SC
disruptions. It shows that the average stock returns of dis-
rupted firms are nearly −40% and the effect lasts for 1 year
after disruption. This is one of the series of studies published
by the authors on the idea of financial effect of operations
management
7
The organizational antecedents of a firm’s
supply chain agility for risk mitigation
and response.” Journal of Operations
Management Braunscheidel and Suresh
(2009)
A survey on SC professionals followed by a statistical model-
ling identified that internal integration, external integration
with key suppliers and customers, and external flexibility to
have significant positive impact on the firm’s supply chain
agility
8
Understanding the concept of supply
chain resilience International Journal of
Logistics Management Ponomarov and
Holcomb(2009)
A review which sets the basis for explaining SC resilience
and for the development of a conceptual model. It identifies
that resilience had yet to be researched from the logistics
perspective
9
Global supply chain risk management strat-
egies.” International Journal of Physical
Distribution & Logistics Management.
Manuj and Mentzer (2008)
A survey (interview-based with senior SC executives) and
review study exploring risk management strategies in global
supply chains, and building a theoretical model based on
demand, supply and operational risks
10
Identifying risk issues and research
advancements in supply chain risk
management.” International Journal of
Production Economics Tang and Musa
(2011)
A review and profiling study that investigates the research
development in SC risk management using citation/co-
citation analysis
Appendix
See Tables 3, 4, 5, 6.

---

## 第 28 页

992
Annals of Operations Research (2022) 319:965–1002
1 3
Table 4   Top 10 trending* papers on supply chain disruptions
*(6 hot papers as characterized by WoS because were published in the past 2 years and received enough
citations to be in the top 0.1% of papers in their academic field and 4 papers with a high average citation per
year index)
TITLE–JOURNAL-Ref
Contribution
1
The impact of digital technology and
Industry 4.0 on the ripple effect and supply
chain risk analytics. International Journal
of Production Research. Ivanov et al.
(2019)
It analyses future transformations towards cyber-physical
SCs and the impact of digitalisation (big data analytics,
Industry 4.0, additive manufacturing, advanced trace &
tracking systems) of SCs on the ripple effect control and
SC disruptions
2
Blockchain technology and its relationships
to sustainable supply chain management.
International Journal of Production
Research Saberi et al. (2019)
It discusses blockchain technology and smart contracts and
their potential application to SCM to mitigate risks
3
Review of quantitative methods for supply
chain resilience analysis. Transportation
Research Part E: Logistics and Transpor-
tation Review (Hosseini et al. 2019a)
It presents a systematic review and profiling study of recent
literature on SC risks and analyses the quantitative methods
can be used at different levels of capacity resilience
4
Blockchain adoption challenges in supply
chain: An empirical investigation of the
main drivers in India and the USA. Inter-
national Journal of Information Manage-
ment. Queiroz and Wamba (2019)
A survey and statistical modeling of the employee’ attitudes
towards the adoption of blockchain technology. Factors
that positively affect the behavioral intention to adopt
blockchain are facilitating conditions and trust between SC
stakeholders
5
Low-Certainty-Need (LCN) supply chains:
a new perspective in managing disruption
risks and resilience. International Journal
of Production Research Ivanov and Dolgui
(2019)
It presents a new conceptual approach to SC design with a
low need for certainty, less dependent on the unpredictabil-
ity of disruptive changes
6
Ripple effect in the supply chain: an analysis
and recent literature. International Journal
of Production Research Dolgui et al.
(2018)
A follow-up review study which thoroughly presents the rip-
ple effect in SCs by describing its reasons, the quantitative
models for its analysis and research gaps
7
OR/MS models for supply chain disruptions:
a review. IIE Transactions Snyder et al.
(2016)
A review of 180 OR modelling studies on SC disruptions
organized under evaluation of SC disruptions, strategic and
sourcing decisions, contracts and incentives, inventory; and
facility location
8
A critical review on supply chain risk–
Definition, measure and modeling. Omega
Heckmann et al. (2015)
A review of quantitative SC risk management approaches
also emphasizing the definition of SC risk and related
concepts
9
Supply chain risk management: a literature
review. International Journal of Produc-
tion Research Ho et al. (2015)
Classification of studies based on risk factors, types, indus-
tries and the use of quantitative modeling methods and
qualitative techniques
10
Researchers’ Perspectives on Supply Chain
Risk Management. Production and opera-
tions management Sodhi et al. (2012)
A survey using open-ended questions to focus groups of
professionals (members of Supply Chain Thought Leaders,
International SCRM groups, Operations and SC manage-
ment researchers of INFORMS). The survey identified
gaps related to the definition of SCRM, the experiences of
risk incidents, and the use of empirical methods

---

## 第 29 页

993
Annals of Operations Research (2022) 319:965–1002
1 3
Table 5   Ten indicative examples of papers applying quantitative techniques
Modeling
technique
Disruption response
Ref.
Example description
Optimization:
mixed-
integer
nonlinear
program-
ming
Multiple sourcing
Amini and Li
(2011)
The hybrid optimization model represents a
supply chain configuration for a new product
diffusion that allows the manufacturer to source
from multiple suppliers and modes and deter-
mines safety stock placement decisions based
on demand dynamics throughout the product’s
life cycle. The multiple-sourcing approach is
superior to single-sourcing on the overall sup-
ply chain performance in an environment with
random supply disruptions.
Optimization:
stochastic
program-
ming model
Risk – Costs perfor-
mance
Snoeck et al.
(2019)
A two-stage stochastic programing model is
developed to assess the costs of disruptions
and the SC mitigation options incorporat-
ing a conditional value at risk in the model’s
objective function to depict the risk averted
decision-makers. Using the case of a chemi-
cal SC, the results show the trade-off between
long-term costs minimization and short term
risk minimization, which latter leads to a more
aggressive investment policy.
Simulation:
System
dynamics
Information Sharing Kochan et al.
(2018)
The study builds two system dynamics models
one representing traditional and the other
cloud-based information sharing in a hospital
supply chain and simulates their performance
The findings show that cloud-based informa-
tion sharing improves visibility and hospital’s
responsiveness to accommodate fluctuations in
patient demand and supply lead times.
Simulation:
hybrid
model
(discrete-
event simu-
lation and
agent-based
model)
Ripple effect—
Capacity change
Ivanov (2017)
The study models the ripple effect using a
discrete-event simulation model of which each
structural model object is an agent. Demand
forecasts are set up based on historical data and
periodic demand. Ordering incorporates sourc-
ing policies from distribution centers (DCs) to
customers (e.g. single or multiple sourcing) and
inventory control policies at DCs. Production
includes sourcing policies from factories to
DCs and inventory policies at factories. Under
transportation, vehicle types and path data
are set-up. By decreasing capacities (capacity
disruptions) at different points in time and for
different durations, performance impacts are
observed for different scenarios. Performance
measures include revenue, costs, lead time,
delayed orders and service level.
Simulation:
discrete-
event
simulation
Ripple effect–
single-multiple
sourcing/capacity
change
Ivanov (2018)
The detailed large-scale discrete-event simula-
tion model replicates the supply chain of a
smartphone and under the execution of different
scenarios it determines the factors that mitigate
the ripple effect (facility fortification at major
employers in regions) and the factors that
enhance the effect (single sourcing, reduction
of storage facilities downstream the SC).

---

## 第 30 页

994
Annals of Operations Research (2022) 319:965–1002
1 3
Table 5   (continued)
Modeling
technique
Disruption response
Ref.
Example description
Simulation:
agent-based
model
Supplier selection
Hou et al. (2018)
An agent-based simulation model is built of a SC
network where each firm is modeled as an agent
who selects suppliers based on trust, selling
price or just randomly. The model shows that
the trust-based rule is the most robust against
disruptions.
Control
theory and
time-
continuous
simulation
Information shar-
ing—Bullwhip
effect
Yang and Fan
(2016)
By using control theory modeling and simulation
this study analyses three two-echelon SCs with
different information management strategies
[traditional, information sharing and collabora-
tive planning, forecasting and replenishment
(CPFR)] and assesses how these contribute
to mitigating operational and disruption
demand risks. System stability, recovery time
and demand shock amplification are taken as
performance metrics when the SC is under a
demand disruption. Results show that SCs with
popular information management strategies are
not evidently more stable than traditional ones.
Game theory
Supplier reliability
Fang and Shou
(2015)
This paper uses game theory to examine the
Cournot competition between two SCs. Each
SC comprises a retailer and an exclusive sup-
plier with random yield. The model evaluates
the impact of supply uncertainty and competi-
tion intensity on the equilibrium decisions of
ordering quantity, contract offering and cen-
tralization choice. One finding is that a retailer
should order more if its competing retailer’s
supply becomes less reliable or if its own sup-
plier becomes more reliable.
Graph theory
Supply risk
Nakatani et al.
(2018)
Graph theory is used to model a SC with domes-
tic and imported raw materials with chance of
disruption and evaluates the SC vulnerability
as determined by market concentration. Using
a case study of the Japanese synthetic resins
SC the model identifies the bottleneck raw
materials.
Statistical
analysis:
Structural
equation
modeling
(SEM)
Building resilience
Brusset and
Teller (2017)
The results of a survey of 171 SC managers with
the use of structural equation modeling evaluate
the relationships among SC capabilities, resil-
ience and SC risks presented in a conceptual
model. The findings show that resilience is
imrpoved when the SC exhibits high flexibility
and strong integration between its echelons.

---

## 第 31 页

995
Annals of Operations Research (2022) 319:965–1002
1 3
Table 6   Contribution of literature on the ripple effect
Methods
Contribution-References
Literature review
Review and overview analysis to introduce the ripple effect in SCs;
reasons for happening, modelling approaches for describing the
phenomenon and its impact, mitigation strategies and future research
Dolgui et al. (2018), Ivanov et al. (2014a, b)
Bibliometric analysis
Bibliometric analysis with network and meta-analysis techniques to
classify research in clusters and identify current and future research
on the field (Mishra et al. 2019).
Viewpoint
A conceptual framework for researching the relationships between dig-
italization (big data analytics, Industry 4.0, additive manufacturing,
trace & tracking systems) and SC disruptions and how IT applica-
tions can control the ripple effect (Ivanov et al. 2019)
Interviews-case study-observations
Environmental directives for greening a SC and the ripple effect these
enforcements may have on the SC, acknowledging the importance of
SC partners collaboration at the planning stage (Koh et al. 2012)
Survey
Executives’ survey about their perceptions on the impact and causes of
SC risks, actions they take to address them and challenges they face
(Marchese and Paramasivam 2013)
Simulation models
A simulation study of a real distribution case in the beverage sector to
investigate the interrelations of the bullwhip and ripple effect. The
findings show that the ripple effect can be a bullwhip-effect driver,
while the latter can be launched by a severe disruption even in the
downstream direction (Dolgui et al. 2019)
Development of multi-stage SC hybrid models consider capacity/
sourcing disruptions in order to measure the ripple effect impact and
identify recovery strategies. The studies contribute to the identifica-
tion of major areas of simulation application to the ripple effect
modelling (Hosseini et al. 2019b; Ivanov 2017).
A model for reactive recovery policies in the dairy SC under condi-
tions of the ripple effect (Ivanov et al. 2016a, b)
Mathematical models
Modelling of protection plans of large area disruptions where the
ripple effect distresses entire regions by analyzing the 2009 L’Aquila
earthquake case. The single-level mixed-integer model applied to a
tree-search procedure identifies which facilities to protect (Libera-
tore et al. 2012).
Development of linear programming models of multi-period, multi-
commodity production–distribution/transportation SC models
with disruptions and the ripple effect consideration in order to aid
decision making in reconfiguring the network design (Ivanov et al.
2015, 2013)
With a focus on the modelling aspect of a multi-stage, multi-period,
and multi-commodity problem settings are developed for multi-
objective decision-making on optimal distribution planning for an
upstream centralized network taking into account structure dynamics
and the ripple effect of different disturbances (Ivanov et al. 2014a, b)
The contribution of this study is to establish an interrelation between
the disruption scenarios of different risk aversions and the optimiza-
tion of the SC reconfiguration paths for recovery (Pavlov et al. 2019)
A Bayesian network approach for SC resilience measure with a multi-
stage assessment of suppliers’ proneness to disruptions (included
for the first time in the literature) considering also SC propagation.
(Hosseini and Ivanov 2019)

---

## 第 32 页

996
Annals of Operations Research (2022) 319:965–1002
1 3
References
Ali, A., Mahfouz, A., & Arisha, A. (2017). Analysing supply chain resilience: Integrating the constructs in a
concept mapping framework via a systematic literature review. Supply Chain Management: An Inter-
national Journal, 22(1), 16–39.
Amini, M., & Li, H. (2011). Supply chain configuration for diffusion of new products: An integrated optimi-
zation approach. Omega, 39(3), 313–322.
Araz, O., Choi, T., Olson, D., & Salman, F. (2020). Data analytics for operational risk management. Deci-
sion Sciences. https​://doi.org/10.1111/deci.12443​.
Atadeniz, S. N., & Sridharan, S. V. (2019). Effectiveness of nervousness reduction policies when capacity is
constrained. International Journal of Production Research, 58, 4121.
Awasthy, P., Gopakumar, K. V., Gouda, S. K., & Haldar, T. (2019). Trust in humanitarian operations: a
content analytic approach for an Indian NGO. International Journal of Production Research, 57(9),
2626–2641. https​://doi.org/10.1080/00207​543.2019.15666​52.
Baghalian, A., Rezapour, S., & Farahani, R. Z. (2013). Robust supply chain network design with service
level against disruptions and demand uncertainties: A real-life case. European Journal of Operational
Research, 227(1), 199–215.
Baharmand, H., Comes, T., & Lauras, M. (2019). Defining and measuring the network flexibility of humani-
tarian supply chains: Insights from the 2015 Nepal earthquake. Annals of Operations Research,
283(1), 961–1000.
Banker, S. (2019). Supply chain trends to watch in 2019. Forbes, Transportation https​://www.forbe​s.com/
sites​/steve​banke​r/2019/01/05/suppl​y-chain​-trend​s-to-watch​-in-2019/#2b4b4​f5a32​3d.
Banomyong, R., Varadejsatitwong, P., & Oloruntoba, R. (2019). A systematic review of humanitarian oper-
ations, humanitarian logistics and humanitarian supply chain performance literature 2005 to 2016.
Annals of Operations Research, 283(1–2), 71–86.
Baryannis, G., Dani, S., & Antoniou, G. (2019a). Predicting supply chain risks using machine learning:
The trade-off between performance and interpretability. Future Generation Computer Systems, 101,
993–1004.
Baryannis, G., Validi, S., Dani, S., & Antoniou, G. (2019b). Supply chain risk management and artificial
intelligence: State of the art and future research directions. International Journal of Production
Research, 57(7), 2179–2202. https​://doi.org/10.1080/00207​543.2018.15304​76.
BCI-Business Continuity Institute. (2019). Supply chain resilience 10  year trend analysis. 2009–2018.
Zurich Insurance Group https​://www.b-c-train​ing.com/img/uploa​ds/resou​rces/Suppl​y-Chain​-Resil​
ience​-10-year-trend​-analy​sis.pdf.
Ben-Daya, M., Hassini, E., & Bahroun, Z. (2019). Internet of things and supply chain management: A litera-
ture review. International Journal of Production Research, 57(15–16), 4719–4742.
Bier, T., Lange, A., & Glock, C. H. (2019). Methods for mitigating disruptions in complex supply chain
structures: A systematic literature review. International Journal of Production Research, 58, 1835.
Blackhurst, J., Craighead, C. W., Elkins, D., & Handfield, R. B. (2005). An empirically derived agenda of
critical research issues for managing supply-chain disruptions. International Journal of Production
Research, 43(19), 4067–4081. https​://doi.org/10.1080/00207​54050​01515​49.
Table 6   (continued)
Methods
Contribution-References
Optimization and simulation
A multi-echelon inventory model to assess the ripple effect of a sup-
plier disruption, with the addition that the study combines features
of financial, customer, and operational performance based on pos-
sible maximum loss (Kinra et al. 2019).
Multi-criteria model
A multi-criteria approach based on the analytic hierarchy process
method to select a SC design under the ripple effect consideration by
integrating operability objectives as new KPIs (resilience, stability,
robustness) into SC decisions (Sokolov et al. 2016)
Graph model
A multi-level graph model of the SC with an entropic approach which
is capable of defining SC risks for the identification and quantifica-
tion of the ripple effect (Levner and Ptuskin 2018)

---

## 第 33 页

997
Annals of Operations Research (2022) 319:965–1002
1 3
Brandon-Jones, E., Squire, B., & Van Rossenberg, Y. G. T. (2015). The impact of supply base complexity on
disruptions and performance: The moderating effects of slack and visibility. International Journal of
Production Research, 53(22), 6903–6918. https​://doi.org/10.1080/00207​543.2014.98629​6.
Braunscheidel, M. J., & Suresh, N. C. (2009). The organizational antecedents of a firm’s supply chain agility
for risk mitigation and response. Journal of operations Management, 27(2), 119–140.
Brintrup, A., Pak, J., Ratiney, D., Pearce, T., Wichmann, P., Woodall, P., et al. (2019). Supply chain data
analytics for predicting supplier disruptions: a case study in complex asset manufacturing. Interna-
tional Journal of Production Research, 58, 3330.
Brusset, X., & Teller, C. (2017). Supply chain capabilities, risks, and resilience. International Journal of
Production Economics, 184, 59–68.
Cantor, D. E., Blackhurst, J., Pan, M., & Crum, M. (2014). Examining the role of stakeholder pressure and
knowledge management on supply chain risk and demand responsiveness. The International Journal
of Logistics Management, 25, 202.
Centobelli, P., Cerchione, R., & Ertz, M. (2019). Managing supply chain resilience to pursue business and
environmental strategies. Business Strategy and the Environment, 29, 1215.
Chen, K. B., & Yang, L. (2014). Random yield and coordination mechanisms of a supply chain with emer-
gency backup sourcing. International Journal of Production Research, 52(16), 4747–4767. https​://
doi.org/10.1080/00207​543.2014.88679​0.
Chen, C. P., & Zhang, C. Y. (2014). Data-intensive applications, challenges, techniques and technologies: A
survey on Big Data. Information Sciences, 275, 314–347.
Chen, H., Chiang, R. H. L., & Storey, V. C. (2012). Business intelligence and analytics: From big data to big
impact. MIS Quarterly, 36(4), 1165.
Chongvilaivan, A. (2011). Managing global supply chain disruptions: Experience from Thailand’s 2011
flooding. Regional Economic Studies Programme, Institute of Southeast Asian Studies (ISEAS), 30
Chopra, S., & Sodhi, M. (2004). Supply-chain breakdown. MIT Sloan Management Review, 46(1), 53–61.
Chopra, S., & Sodhi, M. (2014). Reducing the risk of supply chain disruptions. MIT Sloan Management
Review, 55(3), 72–80.
Chowdhury, M. M. H., & Quaddus, M. (2017). Supply chain resilience: Conceptualization and scale devel-
opment using dynamic capability theory. International Journal of Production Economics, 188,
185–204.
Christopher, M., & Peck, H. (2004). Building the resilient supply chain. The International Journal of Logis-
tics Management, 15(2), 1–14.
Craighead, C. W., Blackhurst, J., Rungtusanatham, M. J., & Handfield, R. B. (2007). The severity of sup-
ply chain disruptions: Design characteristics and mitigation capabilities. Decision Sciences, 38(1),
131–156.
Crosby, M., Nachiappan Pattanayak, P., Verma, S., & Kalyanaraman, V. (2016). Blockchain technology:
Beyond bitcoin. Applied Innovation Review, June, Issue No. 2. Sutardja Center for Entrepeneurship
and Technology, Berkeley.
Cruz, J. M. (2009). The impact of corporate social responsibility in supply chain management: Multicriteria
decision-making approach. Decision Support Systems, 48(1), 224–236.
Das, K., & Lashkari, R. S. (2015). Risk readiness and resiliency planning for a supply chain. International
Journal of Production Research, 53(22), 6752–6771. https​://doi.org/10.1080/00207​543.2015.10576​
24.
de Oliveira, M. P. V., & Handfield, R. (2019). Analytical foundations for development of real-time sup-
ply chain capabilities. International Journal of Production Research, 57(5), 1571–1589. https​://doi.
org/10.1080/00207​543.2018.14932​40.
Diabat, A., Govindan, K., & Panicker, V. V. (2012). Supply chain risk management and its mitigation in
a food industry. International Journal of Production Research, 50(11), 3039–3050. https​://doi.
org/10.1080/00207​543.2011.58861​9.
Dolgui, A., Ivanov, D., & Sokolov, B. (2018). Ripple effect in the supply chain: an analysis and recent litera-
ture. International Journal of Production Research, 56(1–2), 414–430. https​://doi.org/10.1080/00207​
543.2017.13876​80.
Dolgui, A., Ivanov, D., & Rozhkov, M. (2019). Does the ripple effect influence the bullwhip effect? An
integrated analysis of structural and operational dynamics in the supply chain(dagger). International
Journal of Production Research. https​://doi.org/10.1080/00207​543.2019.16274​38.
Dubey, R., Altay, N., & Blome, C. (2019a). Swift trust and commitment: The missing links for humanitarian
supply chain coordination? Annals of Operations Research, 283(1), 159–177.
Dubey, R., Gunasekaran, A., Childe, S. J., Papadopoulos, T., Blome, C., & Luo, Z. (2019b). Antecedents of
resilient supply chains: An empirical study. IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management, 66(1),
8–19.

---

## 第 34 页

998
Annals of Operations Research (2022) 319:965–1002
1 3
Dubey, R., Gunasekaran, A., & Papadopoulos, T. (2019c). Disaster relief operations: Past, present and
future. Annals of Operations Research, 283(1–2), 1–8.
DuHadway, S., Carnovale, S., & Hazen, B. (2019). Understanding risk management for intentional supply
chain disruptions: Risk detection, risk mitigation, and risk recovery. Annals of Operations Research,
283(1), 179–198.
Dupont, L., Bernard, C., Hamdi, F., & Masmoudi, F. (2018). Supplier selection under risk of delivery fail-
ure: A decision-support model considering managers’ risk sensitivity. International Journal of Pro-
duction Research, 56(3), 1054–1069. https​://doi.org/10.1080/00207​543.2017.13644​42.
Dwivedi, Y. K., Shareef, M. A., Mukerji, B., Rana, N. P., & Kapoor, K. K. (2018). Involvement in emer-
gency supply chain for disaster management: A cognitive dissonance perspective. International Jour-
nal of Production Research, 56(21), 6758–6773. https​://doi.org/10.1080/00207​543.2017.13789​58.
Elzarka, S. M. (2013). Supply chain risk management: The lessons learned from the Egyptian revolution
2011. International Journal of Logistics Research and Applications, 16(6), 482–492.
Fan, Y., Schwartz, F., & Voß, S. (2017). Flexible supply chain planning based on variable transportation
modes. International Journal of Production Economics, 183, 654–666.
Fang, Y., & Shou, B. (2015). Managing supply uncertainty under supply chain Cournot competition. Euro-
pean Journal of Operational Research, 243(1), 156–176.
FEMA. (2015). Make your business resilient: Business infographic. Federal Emergency Management
Agency https​://www.fema.gov/media​-libra​ry/asset​s/docum​ents/10845​1.
Ferreira, F. D. A. L., Scavarda, L. F., Ceryno, P. S., & Leiras, A. (2018). Supply chain risk analysis: A ship-
building industry case. International Journal of Logistics Research and Applications, 21(5), 542–556.
Galetsi, P., Katsaliaki, K., & Kumar, S. (2019). Values, challenges and future directions of big data analytics
in healthcare: A systematic review. Social Science and Medicine, 241, 112533.
Galetsi, P., Katsaliaki, K., & Kumar, S. (2020). Big data analytics in health sector: Theoretical framework,
techniques and prospects. International Journal of Information Management, 50, 206–216.
Gaviria-Marin, M., Merigó, J. M., & Baier-Fuentes, H. (2019). Knowledge management: A global examina-
tion based on bibliometric analysis. Technological Forecasting and Social Change, 140, 194–220.
Ghadge, A., Weib, M., Caldwell, N., & Wilding, R. L. (2019). Managing cyber risk in supply chains: A
review and research agenda. Supply Chain Management, 25(2), 223.
Godin, B. (2006). On the origins of bibliometrics. Scientometrics, 68(1), 109–133.
Griffith, D. A., Boehmke, B., Bradley, R. V., Hazen, B. T., & Johnson, A. W. (2019). Embedded analyt-
ics: improving decision support for humanitarian logistics operations. Annals of Operations Research,
283(1–2), 247–265.
Gunasekaran, A., Kumar Tiwari, M., Dubey, R., & Fosso Wamba, S. (2016). Big data and predictive analyt-
ics applications in supply chain management. Computers & Industrial Engineering, 101, 525–527.
Gunessee, S., Subramanian, N., & Ning, K. (2018). Natural disasters, PC supply chain and corporate per-
formance. International Journal of Operations & Production Management. https​://doi.org/10.1108/
IJOPM​-12-2016-0705.
Hassan, T. A., Hollander, S., van Lent, L., & Tahoun, A. (2020). Firm-level exposure to epidemic diseases:
Covid-19, SARS, and H1N1 (0898-2937). Retrieved from
Heckmann, I., Comes, T., & Nickel, S. (2015). A critical review on supply chain risk–Definition, measure
and modeling. Omega, 52, 119–132.
Hendricks, K. B., & Singhal, V. R. (2003). The effect of supply chain glitches on shareholder wealth. Jour-
nal of Operations Management, 21(5), 501–522.
Hendricks, K. B., & Singhal, V. R. (2005). An empirical analysis of the effect of supply chain disruptions
on long-run stock price performance and equity risk of the firm. Production and Operations Manage-
ment, 14(1), 35–52.
Hendricks, K. B., Singhal, V. R., & Zhang, R. (2009). The effect of operational slack, diversification, and
vertical relatedness on the stock market reaction to supply chain disruptions. Journal of Operations
Management, 27(3), 233–246.
Ho, W., Zheng, T., Yildiz, H., & Talluri, S. (2015). Supply chain risk management: A literature review.
International Journal of Production Research, 53(16), 5031–5069. https​://doi.org/10.1080/00207​
543.2015.10304​67.
Hosseini, S., & Ivanov, D. (2019). A new resilience measure for supply networks with the ripple effect con-
siderations: A Bayesian network approach. Annals of Operations Research. https​://doi.org/10.1007/
s1047​9-019-03350​-8.
Hosseini, S., Ivanov, D., & Dolgui, A. (2019a). Review of quantitative methods for supply chain resilience
analysis. Transportation Research Part E: Logistics and Transportation Review, 125, 285–307. https​
://doi.org/10.1016/j.tre.2019.03.001.

---

## 第 35 页

999
Annals of Operations Research (2022) 319:965–1002
1 3
Hosseini, S., Ivanov, D., & Dolgui, A. (2019b). Ripple effect modelling of supplier disruption: inte-
grated Markov chain and dynamic Bayesian network approach. International Journal of Produc-
tion Research, 58, 3284.
Hou, Y., Wang, X., Wu, Y. J., & He, P. (2018). How does the trust affect the topology of supply chain
network and its resilience? An agent-based approach. Transportation Research Part E: Logistics
and Transportation Review, 116, 229–241.
Ivanov, D. (2017). Simulation-based ripple effect modelling in the supply chain. International Journal of
Production Research, 55(7), 2083–2101. https​://doi.org/10.1080/00207​543.2016.12758​73.
Ivanov, D. (2018). Revealing interfaces of supply chain resilience and sustainability: A simulation study.
International Journal of Production Research, 56(10), 3507–3523. https​://doi.org/10.1080/00207​
543.2017.13435​07.
Ivanov, D. (2020a). Predicting the impacts of epidemic outbreaks on global supply chains: A simula-
tion-based analysis on the coronavirus outbreak (COVID-19/SARS-CoV-2) case. Transportation
Research Part E: Logistics and Transportation Review, 136, 101922.
Ivanov, D. (2020b). Viable supply chain model: integrating agility, resilience and sustainability per-
spectives—lessons from and thinking beyond the COVID-19 pandemic. Annals of Operations
Research, 1.
Ivanov, D., & Dolgui, A. (2019). Low-Certainty-Need (LCN) Supply Chains: A new perspective in man-
aging disruption risks and resilience. International Journal of Production Research, 57(15–16),
5119–5136.
Ivanov, D., & Dolgui, A. (2020). Viability of intertwined supply networks: extending the supply chain
resilience angles towards survivability. A position paper motivated by COVID-19 outbreak. Inter-
national Journal of Production Research, 58(10), 2904–2915.
Ivanov, D., & Sokolov, B. (2019). Simultaneous structural–operational control of supply chain dynamics
and resilience. Annals of Operations Research, 283(1–2), 1191–1210.
Ivanov, D., Sokolov, B., & Pavlov, A. (2013). Dual problem formulation and its application to opti-
mal redesign of an integrated production-distribution network with structure dynamics and ripple
effect considerations. International Journal of Production Research, 51(18), 5386–5403. https​://
doi.org/10.1080/00207​543.2013.77450​3.
Ivanov, D., Pavlov, A., & Sokolov, B. (2014a). Optimal distribution (re) planning in a centralized multi-
stage supply network under conditions of the ripple effect and structure dynamics. European Jour-
nal of Operational Research, 237(2), 758–770.
Ivanov, D., Sokolov, B., & Dolgui, A. (2014b). The Ripple effect in supply chains: Trade-off ‘efficiency-
flexibility-resilience’ in disruption management. International Journal of Production Research,
52(7), 2154–2172. https​://doi.org/10.1080/00207​543.2013.85883​6.
Ivanov, D., Hartl, R., Dolgui, A., Pavlov, A., & Sokolov, B. (2015). Integration of aggregate distribution
and dynamic transportation planning in a supply chain with capacity disruptions and the ripple
effect consideration. International Journal of Production Research, 53(23), 6963–6979. https​://
doi.org/10.1080/00207​543.2014.98630​3.
Ivanov, D., Mason, S. J., & Hartl, R. (2016a). Supply chain dynamics, control and disruption manage-
ment. International Journal of Production Research, 54(1), 1–7. https​://doi.org/10.1080/00207​
543.2015.11141​86.
Ivanov, D., Sokolov, B., Solovyeva, I., Dolgui, A., & Jie, F. (2016b). Dynamic recovery policies for
time-critical supply chains under conditions of ripple effect. International Journal of Production
Research, 54(23), 7245–7258. https​://doi.org/10.1080/00207​543.2016.11612​53.
Ivanov, D., Dolgui, A., Sokolov, B., & Ivanova, M. (2017). Literature review on disruption recovery in
the supply chain. International Journal of Production Research, 55(20), 6158–6174. https​://doi.
org/10.1080/00207​543.2017.13305​72.
Ivanov, D., Dolgui, A., & Sokolov, B. (2019). The impact of digital technology and Industry 4.0 on the
ripple effect and supply chain risk analytics. International Journal of Production Research, 57(3),
829–846. https​://doi.org/10.1080/00207​543.2018.14880​86.
Jabbarzadeh, A., Fahimnia, B., & Sabouhi, F. (2018). Resilient and sustainable supply chain design: Sus-
tainability analysis under disruption risks. International Journal of Production Research, 56(17),
5945–5968. https​://doi.org/10.1080/00207​543.2018.14619​50.
Kamalahmadi, M., & Mellat-Parast, M. (2016). Developing a resilient supply chain through supplier
flexibility and reliability assessment. International Journal of Production Research, 54(1), 302–
321. https​://doi.org/10.1080/00207​543.2015.10889​71.
Katsaliaki, K., & Mustafee, N. (2019). Distributed simulation of supply chains in the industry 4.0 Era: A
state of the art field overview. In: Simulation for industry 4.0 (pp. 55–80): Springer.

---

## 第 36 页

1000
Annals of Operations Research (2022) 319:965–1002
1 3
Khakzad, N. (2015). Application of dynamic Bayesian network to risk analysis of domino effects in chemi-
cal infrastructures. Reliability Engineering & System Safety, 138, 263–272.
Kinra, A., Ivanov, D., Das, A., & Dolgui, A. (2019). Ripple effect quantification by supplier risk exposure
assessment. International Journal of Production Research, 58, 5559.
Kleindorfer, P. R., & Saad, G. H. (2005). Managing disruption risks in supply chains. Production and Oper-
ations management, 14(1), 53–68.
Knight, R., & Pretty, D. (1996). The impact of catastrophes on shareholders. Retrieved on September, 10,
2007.
Kochan, C. G., Nowicki, D. R., Sauser, B., & Randall, W. S. (2018). Impact of cloud-based information
sharing on hospital supply chain performance: A system dynamics framework. International Journal
of Production Economics, 195, 168–185.
Koh, S. C., Gunasekaran, A., & Tseng, C. S. (2012). Cross-tier ripple and indirect effects of directives
WEEE and RoHS on greening a supply chain. International Journal of Production Economics,
140(1), 305–317.
Kranenburg, R. V. (2008). The Internet of Things: A critique of ambient technology and the all-seeing net-
work of RFID: Insitute of Network Cultures.
Lee, H. L., Padmanabhan, V., & Whang, S. (1997). The bullwhip effect in supply chains. Sloan Manage-
ment Review, 38, 93–102.
Levner, E., & Ptuskin, A. (2018). Entropy-based model for the ripple effect: Managing environmental
risks in supply chains. International Journal of Production Research, 56(7), 2539–2551. https​://doi.
org/10.1080/00207​543.2017.13745​75.
Liberatore, F., Scaparra, M. P., & Daskin, M. S. (2012). Hedging against disruptions with ripple effects in
location analysis. Omega, 40(1), 21–30.
Maiyar, L. M., & Thakkar, J. J. (2019). Robust optimisation of sustainable food grain transportation with
uncertain supply and intentional disruptions. International Journal of Production Research, 58, 5651.
Manuj, I., & Mentzer, J. T. (2008). Global supply chain risk management strategies. International Journal
of Physical Distribution & Logistics Management. https​://doi.org/10.1108/09600​03081​08669​86.
Marchese, K., & Paramasivam, S. (2013). The Ripple Effect How manufacturing and retail executives view
the growing challenge of supply chain risk. Deloitte Development LLC.
Merigó, J. M., & Yang, J.-B. (2017). A bibliometric analysis of operations research and management sci-
ence. Omega, 73, 37–48.
Mishra, D., Dwivedi, Y. K., Rana, N. P., & Hassini, E. (2019). Evolution of supply chain ripple effect: a
bibliometric and meta-analytic view of the constructs. International Journal of Production Research.
https​://doi.org/10.1080/00207​543.2019.16680​73.
Mollenkopf, D. A., Ozanne, L. K., & Stolze, H. J. (2020). A transformative supply chain response to
COVID-19. Journal of Service Management. https​://doi.org/10.1108/JOSM-05-2020-0143.
Mori, M., Kobayashi, R., Samejima, M., & Komoda, N. (2014). Cost-benefit analysis of decentralized
ordering on multi-tier supply chain by risk simulator. Studies in informatics and control, 23(3), 230.
Nakano, M., & Lau, A. K. (2020). A systematic review on supply chain risk management: using the strat-
egy-structure-process-performance framework. International Journal of Logistics Research and
Applications, 23(5), 443–473.
Nakatani, J., Tahara, K., Nakajima, K., Daigo, I., Kurishima, H., Kudoh, Y., et al. (2018). A graph theory-
based methodology for vulnerability assessment of supply chains using the life cycle inventory data-
base. Omega, 75, 165–181.
Namdar, J., Li, X. P., Sawhney, R., & Pradhan, N. (2018). Supply chain resilience for single and multiple
sourcing in the presence of disruption risks. International Journal of Production Research, 56(6),
2339–2360. https​://doi.org/10.1080/00207​543.2017.13701​49.
Ni, J., Flynn, B. B., & Jacobs, F. R. (2016). The effect of a toy industry product recall announcement on
shareholder wealth. International Journal of Production Research, 54(18), 5404–5415. https​://doi.
org/10.1080/00207​543.2015.11066​08.
Pavlov, A., Ivanov, D., Werner, F., Dolgui, A., & Sokolov, B. (2019). Integrated detection of disruption sce-
narios, the ripple effect dispersal and recovery paths in supply chains. Annals of Operations Research.
https​://doi.org/10.1007/s1047​9-019-03454​-1.
Pettit, T. J., Croxton, K. L., & Fiksel, J. (2013). Ensuring supply chain resilience: Development and imple-
mentation of an assessment tool. Journal of business logistics, 34(1), 46–76.
Ponomarov, S. Y., & Holcomb, M. C. (2009). Understanding the concept of supply chain resilience. The
International Journal of Logistics Management. https​://doi.org/10.1108/09574​09091​09548​73.
Queiroz, M. M., & Wamba, S. F. (2019). Blockchain adoption challenges in supply chain: An empirical
investigation of the main drivers in India and the USA. International Journal of Information Manage-
ment, 46, 70–82.

---

## 第 37 页

1001
Annals of Operations Research (2022) 319:965–1002
1 3
Queiroz, M. M., Ivanov, D., Dolgui, A., & Wamba, S. F. (2020). Impacts of epidemic outbreaks on sup-
ply chains: Mapping a research agenda amid the COVID-19 pandemic through a structured litera-
ture review. Annals of Operations Research. https​://doi.org/10.1007/s1047​9-020-03685​-7.
Rao, S., & Goldsby, T. J. (2009). Supply chain risks: A review and typology. The International Journal
of Logistics Management, 20(1), 97–123.
Saberi, S., Kouhizadeh, M., Sarkis, J., & Shen, L. J. (2019). Blockchain technology and its relationships
to sustainable supply chain management. International Journal of Production Research, 57(7),
2117–2135. https​://doi.org/10.1080/00207​543.2018.15332​61.
Sáenz, M. J., & Revilla, E. (2014). Creating more resilient supply chains. MIT Sloan management
review, 55(4), 22–24.
Sarkar, S., & Kumar, S. (2015). A behavioral experiment on inventory management with supply chain
disruption. International Journal of Production Economics, 169, 169–178.
Sawik, T. (2014). Optimization of cost and service level in the presence of supply chain disruption risks:
Single vs. multiple sourcing. Computers & Operations Research, 51, 11–20.
Sawik, T. (2019). Disruption mitigation and recovery in supply chains using portfolio approach. Omega,
84, 232–248.
Scheibe, K. P., & Blackhurst, J. (2018). Supply chain disruption propagation: A systemic risk and nor-
mal accident theory perspective. International Journal of Production Research, 56(1–2), 43–59.
https​://doi.org/10.1080/00207​543.2017.13551​23.
Sheffi, Y. (2001). Supply chain management under the threat of international terrorism. The Interna-
tional Journal of Logistics Management, 12(2), 1–11.
Shibin, K., Dubey, R., Gunasekaran, A., Hazen, B., Roubaud, D., Gupta, S., et al. (2017). Examining
sustainable supply chain management of SMEs using resource based view and institutional theory.
Annals of Operations Research, 290, 301.
Snoeck, A., Udenio, M., & Fransoo, J. C. (2019). A stochastic program to evaluate disruption mitigation
investments in the supply chain. European Journal of Operational Research, 274(2), 516–530.
Snyder, L. V., Atan, Z., Peng, P., Rong, Y., Schmitt, A. J., & Sinsoysal, B. (2016). OR/MS models for
supply chain disruptions: A review. IIE Transactions, 48(2), 89–109.
Sodhi, M. S., Son, B. G., & Tang, C. S. (2012). Researchers’ perspectives on supply chain risk manage-
ment. Production and Operations management, 21(1), 1–13.
Sokolov, B., Ivanov, D., Dolgui, A., & Pavlov, A. (2016). Structural quantification of the ripple effect
in the supply chain. International Journal of Production Research, 54(1), 152–169. https​://doi.
org/10.1080/00207​543.2015.10553​47.
Song, M., & Du, Q. (2017). Analysis and exploration of damage-reduction measures for flood disasters
in China. Annals of Operations Research, 283, 795.
Swierczek, A. (2016). The “snowball effect” in the transmission of disruptions in supply chains: The
role of intensity and span of integration. The International Journal of Logistics Management,
27(3), 1002–1038.
Tang, C. S. (2006). Perspectives in supply chain risk management. International Journal of Production
Economics, 103(2), 451–488.
Tang, O., & Musa, S. N. (2011). Identifying risk issues and research advancements in supply chain risk
management. International Journal of Production Economics, 133(1), 25–34.
Tang, C., & Tomlin, B. (2008). The power of flexibility for mitigating supply chain risks. International
Journal of Production Economics, 116(1), 12–27.
Teimuory, E., Atoei, F., Mohammadi, E., & Amiri, A. (2013). A multi-objective reliable programming
model for disruption in supply chain. Management Science Letters, 3(5), 1467–1478.
Thun, J. H., & Hoenig, D. (2011). An empirical analysis of supply chain risk management in the German
automotive industry. International Journal of Production Economics, 131(1), 242–249.
Tomlin, B. (2006). On the value of mitigation and contingency strategies for managing supply chain dis-
ruption risks. Management Science, 52(5), 639–657.
Vilko, J. P. P., & Hallikas, J. M. (2012). Risk assessment in multimodal supply chains. International
Journal of Production Economics, 140(2), 586–595.
Viswanadham, N. (2018). Performance analysis and design of competitive business models. Inter-
national Journal of Production Research, 56(1–2), 983–999. https​://doi.org/10.1080/00207​
543.2017.14061​71.
Wagner, S. M., & Bode, C. (2008). An empirical examination of supply chain performance along several
dimensions of risk. Journal of Business Logistics, 29(1), 307–325.
Wagner, S. M., & Neshat, N. (2012). A comparison of supply chain vulnerability indices for different
categories of firms. International Journal of Production Research, 50(11), 2877–2891. https​://doi.
org/10.1080/00207​543.2011.56154​0.

---

## 第 38 页

1002
Annals of Operations Research (2022) 319:965–1002
1 3
Wang, Y., Han, J. H., & Beynon-Davies, P. (2019). Understanding blockchain technology for future supply
chains: A systematic literature review and research agenda. Supply Chain Management: An Interna-
tional Journal. https​://doi.org/10.1108/SCM-03-2018-0148.
Wilding, R., & Wagner, B. (2019). New Supply Chain Models: Disruptive Supply Chain Strategies for 2030
(Systematic Literature Reviews): Emerald group publishing ltd Howard house, Wagon lane, Bingley
Wright, J. (2013). Taking a broader view of supply chain resilience. Supply Chain Management Review,
17(2), 26–31.
Wu, T., Blackhurst, J., & O’Grady, P. (2007). Methodology for supply chain disruption analysis. Interna-
tional Journal of Production Research, 45(7), 1665–1682. https​://doi.org/10.1080/00207​54050​03621​
38.
Yang, T. J., & Fan, W. G. (2016). Information management strategies and supply chain performance
under demand disruptions. International Journal of Production Research, 54(1), 8–27. https​://doi.
org/10.1080/00207​543.2014.99145​6.
Yang, Y. Y., Pan, S. L., & Ballot, E. (2017). Mitigating supply chain disruptions through interconnected
logistics services in the Physical Internet. International Journal of Production Research, 55(14),
3970–3983. https​://doi.org/10.1080/00207​543.2016.12233​79.
Zsidisin, G. A., Melnyk, S. A., & Ragatz, G. L. (2005). An institutional theory perspective of business
continuity planning for purchasing and supply management. International Journal of Production
Research, 43(16), 3401–3420. https​://doi.org/10.1080/00207​54050​00956​13.
Zsidisin, G. A., Petkova, B. N., & Dam, L. (2016). Examining the influence of supply chain glitches on
shareholder wealth: Does the reason matter? International Journal of Production Research, 54(1),
69–82. https​://doi.org/10.1080/00207​543.2015.10157​51.
Publisher’s Note  Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and
institutional affiliations.

---
